Georgia Republicans are getting strong encouragement to enter a candidate in the 1962 governor's race , a top official said Wednesday .
Davis received 1,119 votes in Saturday's election , and Bush got 402 .
Many local citizens feared that there would be irregularities at the polls , and Williams got himself a permit to carry a gun and promised an orderly election .
Dallas may get to hear a debate on horse race parimutuels soon between Reps. V. E. ( Red ) Berry and Joe Ratcliff .
`` We're getting more ' pro ' letters than ' con ' on horse race betting '' , said Ratcliff .
Rep. Berry , an ex-gambler from San Antonio , got elected on his advocacy of betting on the ponies .
The West Texan reported that he had finally gotten Chairman Bill Hollowell of the committee to set it for public hearing on Feb. 22 .
Cotten construed this as a veiled effort by Parkhouse to help Dallas and other large cities get money which Cotten felt could better be spent providing water for rural Texas .
It is impossible to get a fair trial when some of the defendants made statements involving themselves and others '' .
Asked to elaborate , Pierre Salinger , White House press secretary , replied , `` I would say it's got to go thru several more drafts '' .
In Oslo , the ministers have met in a climate of candor , and made a genuine attempt to get information and understanding one another's problems .
Canada alone has been somewhat out of step with the Oslo attempt to get all the allied cars back on the track behind the NATO locomotive .
While the city council suggested that the Legislative Council might perform the review , Mr. Notte said that instead he will take up the matter with Atty. Gen. J. Joseph Nugent to get `` the benefit of his views '' .
As usual , he made no attempt to get in touch with Carmine G. De Sapio , the Manhattan leader .
Each of the organization's ninety-nine members would get two professional posts , such as political affairs officer , a department head or an economist , to start .
Each member would get one post for each 10,000,000 people in its population up to 150,000,000 people or a maximum of fifteen posts .
Each member with a population above 150,000,000 would get one additional post for each additional 30,000,000 people up to an unspecified cut-off point .
Legislators always get restless for a special session ( whether for the companionship or the $22.50 per diem is not certain ) and if they start agitating .
The Hughes concern then took `` shortcuts '' on the project but got paid anyway , Hemphill said .
`` We won't know the full amount until we get a full report '' , Wagner said .
The battalion chief said he had just gotten into his 1958 model automobile to move it from the driveway of his home so that he could take his other car to work .
Chairman C. Richard Mears pointed out that perhaps this was not strictly a school board problem , in case of atomic attack , but that the board would cooperate so far as possible to get the children to where the parents wanted them to go .
Mrs. Molvar , who kept reiterating her request that they `` please take a stand '' , said , `` We must have faith in somebody -- on the local level , and it wouldn't be possible for everyone to rush to a school to get their children '' .
Three were doubles , Brooks Robinson getting a pair and Marv Breeding one .
The Birds got five hits and all three of their runs off Kunkel before Hartman took over in the top of the fourth .
The Orioles got a run in the first inning when Breeding , along with Robinson , the two Birds who got a pair of hits , doubled to right center , moved to third on Russ Snyder's single to right and crossed on Kunkel's wild pitch into the dirt in front of the plate .
The Orioles got a run in the first inning when Breeding , along with Robinson , the two Birds who got a pair of hits , doubled to right center , moved to third on Russ Snyder's single to right and crossed on Kunkel's wild pitch into the dirt in front of the plate .
Culmone gets first win
The crowd at the twenty-first annual K. of C. Games , final indoor meet of the season , got a thrill a few minutes earlier when a slender , bespectacled woman broke the one-week-old world record in the half-mile run .
Although he never gets to play while the clock is running , he gets a big kick -- several every Saturday , in fact -- out of football .
Although he never gets to play while the clock is running , he gets a big kick -- several every Saturday , in fact -- out of football .
But ask coach Darrell Royal what position he plays and you'll get the quick response , `` place-kicker '' .
Last year , when he worked out at halfback all season , he didn't get into a single game .
`` Once you get the feel of it , there's not much to it .
I've tried to teach some of the other boys to kick and some of them can't seem to get the feel .
Practice helps you to get your timing down .
`` It's kind of like golf -- if you don't swing a club very often , your timing gets off '' .
`` If you kick too much , your leg gets kinda dead '' , he explained .
We needed it and we got it '' .
He got hit from the blind side by the split end coming back on the second play of the game .
The Texas Aggies got a day off Monday -- a special gift from Coach Jim Myers for its conference victory last Saturday night , but Myers announced that halfback George Hargett , shaken up in the Tech game , would not play against Trinity Saturday .
Jensen got only six hits in 46 at-bats for a batting average in the first 12 games .
You'll probably get a ball bat on the head .
I told him what Liston had said and he said Liston was a double-crosser and said anything he ( Liston ) got was through a keyhole .
The last couple of years the Bears management got the business from the `` Living Room Athletic Club '' when games were cut off .
Graham will be recognized for his meritorious service to baseball and will get the William J. Slocum Memorial Award .
The Continental League never got off the ground , but after two years it forced the existing majors to expand .
`` I'll do as you say , but I'll also play a provisional ball and get a ruling '' .
Tonight at 8 o'clock the Cardinals , who gave the Pirates as much trouble as anyone did in 1960 , breaking even with them , will get their first 1961 shot at baseball's world champions .
`` He should be getting back in the groove before long .
`` We're getting Friend some runs for a change , and he has been pitching good '' , Murtaugh said .
Since 1949 , the only National League club that got off to a hot start and made a runaway of the race was the '55 Dodger team .
We'd be losing at halftime to a good team and Hartweger would say , ' Don't worry , Coach -- we'll get 'em all right ' '' .
After the coach listed all the boy's faults , Hartweger said , `` Coach before I leave here , you'll get to like me '' .
I'm even going to try to get the whirling dervishes of Damascus '' ! !
You can get into an argument about fallout shelters at the drop of a beer stein in clubs and pubs these nights .
Albert John Luthuli , awarded a Nobel prize for his South African integration struggles , has to get permission to fly to collect his honor .
Bill Veeck's health is back to the dynamo stage , but his medics insist he rest for several more months before getting back into the baseball swim .
Mrs. Harry K. Cohen is chairman of this phase and she is getting an artistic assist from A. Van Hollander , display director of Gimbel Brothers .
The driver told police he followed as the Negro man got out of the cab with his money .
In their suburban cottage the crown charges , the Krogers received secrets from the mystery man , usually on the first Saturday evening of each month , and spent much of the week-end getting the secrets off to Moscow , either on a powerful transmitter buried under the kitchen floor or as dots posted over period marks in used books .
Britain began designing the ship in 1956 but got nowhere until the American government decided to end a ban on sharing military secrets with Britain that had been imposed after Fuchs blabbed .
`` When they became members of the city police narcotics unit '' , Sokol said , `` they were told they would have to get to know certain areas of Chicago in which narcotics were sold and they would have to get to know people in the narcotics racket .
`` When they became members of the city police narcotics unit '' , Sokol said , `` they were told they would have to get to know certain areas of Chicago in which narcotics were sold and they would have to get to know people in the narcotics racket .
The first incident occurred before the trial got under way when Judge H. Hobart Grooms told the jury panel he had heard reports of jury-tampering efforts .
`` The news of their experiments reaches the farmers who , forgetting that birds are the most efficient natural enemies of insects and rodents , are encouraged to try to get rid of all birds that occasionally peck their grapes or their blueberries '' , Buchheister told the delegates .
The only way Fiedler could get back to earth alive was to fly the pulse jet missile and land it on the airstrip .
I had exactly 20 minutes to get down to the test strip '' .
`` I put Arger on the payroll because he promised to get my firm the stevedore account at Navy pier '' , Stein said .
Investors who wanted 100 shares in many cases ended up with 25 , and customers who had put in a bid to buy 400 shares found themselves with 100 and counted themselves lucky to get that many .
In fact , very few customers , anywhere in the nation , were able to get more than 100 shares .
Some Dallas investment firms got only 100 shares , for all of their customers .
Letters by the reams came in from investment firms all over the nation , all of them wanting to get a part of the shares that would be sold ( 185,000 to the public at $12.50 , with another 5,000 reserved for Morton Foods employes at $11.50 a share ) .
The history of the U.S. potato chip industry is that many of today's successful companies got started during the deep depression days .
While he declined to suggest , how , he said that sooner or later we must get rid of Castro , `` for unless we do we're liable to face similar situations in this hemisphere .
Analysts saw the move as a continuation of the recovery drive that got under way late Monday afternoon when the list sank to a hoped-for `` support level '' represented by around 675 in the Dow Jones industrial average .
I am getting dividends on only 50 shares .
In other words , I am getting only half the dividends I should .
Maybe it's taking longer to get things squared away than the bankers expected .
Any shareholder of any of these funds who finds a mistake in his account certainly should get in touch with the bank .
Board Chairman Howard Simpson of the Baltimore & Ohio Railroad Co. , testified the B & O was in its worst financial condition since the depression years and badly needed the economic lift it would get from consolidation with the Chesapeake & Ohio Railroad .
Although the Administration's program cut crop acreage to the lowest point since 1934 , farmers , with the help of extra fertilizer and good weather , are getting such high yields per acre that many are being forced to buy new harvesting machines .
`` Farmers aren't as price conscious as last year so we can get more money on a sale '' , says Jack Martin , who sells J. I. Case tractors and implements in Sioux City , Iowa .
Merritt D. Hill , Ford Motor Co. vice president , says his company is starting to get calls daily from dealers demanding immediate delivery or wanting earlier shipping dates on orders for corn pickers .
It provides that the $1,800 termination payment each cadet is to get , after serving a two-year hitch without pay , will be spread over both years , not taxed in its entirety at a possibly higher rate in the year received .
`` Mostly meat and potatoes -- they have to have that go-go-go without getting too fat '' , says Ramsey .
And to keep athletes' stomachs from getting jumpy under physical duress , he bans all highly flavored condiments .
Mrs. Reese entered 10 past bake-offs before she got into the finals .
I never dreamed of the logistical difficulties involved until , at long last , both of my boys got squeezed into high school .
This is a way of getting to school , but , I understand , it entails a certain loss of social status .
Sometimes I got on the wrong car and didn't get to school at all , but wound up at the ocean , or some other dismal place , and had to spend the day there .
Sometimes I got on the wrong car and didn't get to school at all , but wound up at the ocean , or some other dismal place , and had to spend the day there .
Nobody walks anymore but crackpots and Harry Truman , and he's already got an education .
Housewives are finding literally hundreds of ways of getting the maximum use out of traditional designs , says Mr. Alden and they are doing it largely because Colonial craftsmen had `` an innate sense of the practical '' .
This is a bouncy show which may get a little too frantic at times , but is nevertheless worth your appraisal .
A young real estate salesman , Kern first got seriously interested in the problems posed by Communism when in the Navy Air Force .
He was getting the feel of the room for a concert tomorrow night for Puerto Rico Governor Luis Munoz Marin .
But we couldn't really get along without it .
High blood pressure can get the best of any of us .
At last the White House is going to get some much-copied furniture by that master American craftsman , Duncan Phyfe , whose designs were snubbed in his lifetime when the U. S. Presidents of the 19th Century sent abroad for their furnishings .
Anticipated heavy traffic along the Skyline Drive failed to materialize yesterday , park rangers said , and those who made the trip got a leisurely view of the fall colors through skies swept clear of haze .
Premier Khrushchev has made propaganda capital out of that fact and in the end got his summit meeting anyway .
But if they show self-restraint , they don't get the orders .
On the U.S.'s island base of Okinawa , Task Force 116 , made up of Army , Navy , Marine and Air Force units , got braced to move southward on signal .
At Geneva in 1954 , to get the war in Indo-China settled , the British and French gave in to Russian and Communist Chinese demands and agreed to the setting up of a Communist state , North Viet Nam -- which then , predictably , became a base for Communist operations against neighboring South Viet Nam and Laos .
Soviet Premier Khrushchev sent New Year's hopes for peace to President-elect Kennedy , and got a cool acknowledgment in reply .
When Missouri's Clarence Cannon got the word , he turned purple .
`` Just when you think you have it licked , this golf course can get up and bite you '' , Player had said one afternoon midway through the tournament .
The Augusta National Golf Club Course got up and bit both Player and Palmer .
Palmer's 4-under-par 68 got him off to an early lead , which he shared with Bob Rosburg .
How can you walk Maris to get to Mantle '' ? ?
The sluggers get along so well in fact , that with their families at home for the summer ( Mantle's in Dallas , Maris's in Kansas City ) , they are rooming together .
If you're a good ballplayer , you've got to get mad .
If you're a good ballplayer , you've got to get mad .
`` When I was a kid '' , Maris told a sportswriter last week , `` I used to follow Williams every day in the box score , just to see whether he got a hit or not '' .
He told me he vowed right then that if he ever got to be a star , this never would be said of him '' .
( `` One of the reasons they get along fine '' , says a sportswriter who is friendly with the two men , `` is that both realize Mantle is head-and-shoulders above Maris '' .
Soon after Loper leaked the news that Frankie had ordered `` two of everything '' just `` in case he spills anything '' , Frankie got so mad at the chic designer that he vowed he would not wear a stitch of Loper clothing .
At a reception for new members of Congress , Oregon Democrat Maurine Neuberger , taking the Senate seat held by her husband Richard until his death last March , got a brotherly buss from Democratic Elder Statesman Adlai Stevenson , U.S. Ambassador-designate to the U.N. .
I'm ruddy lazy , and I'm getting on in years .
It gets so frustrating , but then again I don't know what I could do if I gave up racing '' .
All these he hung in his burglarproof home called Stone's Throw , outside Pittsburgh , and only people he liked and trusted ever got to see them .
In fact he seemed delighted to get rid of them .
For 18 months , Hamilton Holmes , 19 , and Charlayne Hunter , 18 , had tried to get into the university .
The evidence in court was testimony about the interview , which for Holmes lasted an hour , although at least one white student at Georgia got through this ritual by a simple phone conversation .
they were determined by the points at which Leopold's explorers and gunmen got tired of walking .
The wildly erratic nature of Patrice Lumumba caused constant problems -- he frequently announced that he wanted the U.N. to get out of the Congo along with the Belgians , and appealed to Russia for help .
Most passengers didn't know what had happened until they got on the ground .
Actually , the officers on the ground had no intention of letting the hijackers get away with any kind of an airplane ; ;
As the morning wore on and a blazing West Texas sun wiped the shadows off the Franklin Mountains , police got close enough to the plane to pry into the baggage compartment .
Further improvements in earnings of the Kansas Turnpike are expected late in 1961 , with the opening of a new bypass at Wichita , and still later when the turnpike gets downtown connections in both Kansas City , Kans. , and Kansas City , Mo. .
`` Hodges is trying to get more foreign business to go to the U.S. .
The U.S. will try to get agreement among the industrialized countries to take more textile imports from the less-developed countries over the years .
Point is that developing countries often build up a textile industry first , need encouragement to get on their feet .
At the same time , another purpose of the conference will be to get certain low-wage countries to control textile exports -- especially dumping of specific products -- to high-wage textile-producing countries .
`` Get competitive or get out '' .
Headquarters gets about 100 requests every day .
In addition to the interlibrary loan service and the children's program , headquarters has a public relations director who seeks to get wider grassroots support for quality library service in the county ; ;
Patients deserve more attention than they are getting .
But if anything can bring home to Mr. Khrushchev the idea that he will not really get much enjoyment from watching this Braddock-against-the-Indians contest , it will probably be the fact that SEATO forces are ready to attempt it -- plus the fact that Moscow has something to lose from closing off disarmament and other bigger negotiations with Washington .
Peace , it's wonderful , and `` world law '' , it's wonderful , too , and shouldn't we get an international covenant extending it into space , before the Russians put some claim jumper on the moon ? ?
Pass the iron rations , please , and light another candle , for it's getting dark down here and we're minded to read a bit of world law just to pass the time away .
Interama , as it rises , will be a living monument to Greater Miami's ability to get together on worthwhile enterprises .
The principle is commendable but we suspect that in the practice somebody is going to get gulled .
The Jackson report will provide some of the political support Mr. Rusk will need if he is to get rid of department personnel engaged , as Sen. Jackson puts it , `` in work that does not really need doing '' .
Anybody who is expecting a joyride should , according to Mr. Shriver , get off the train right now .
Some reports say he was rescued from timely retirement by his friend , Congressman Walter of Pennsylvania , at a moment when the Kennedy Administration was diligently searching for all the House votes it could get .
The new City Charter , which should get a Yes vote as Question No. 1 on Nov. 7 , would not make a good Mayor out of a bad one .
She had , with her own work-weary hands , put seeds in the ground , watched them sprout , bud , blossom , and get ready to bear .
He did say she could get her beef and vegetables in cans this summer .
She's been in and out of my house for a dozen years now , although she's still a teen-ager who looks like a baby , she is getting married .
`` How do you know you love somebody enough to get married '' ? ?
He does not expect to get great riches or he would not have chosen to answer the call to preach .
`` We got one at home .
If you're lyin' out in the hammock at night , and it gets kinda cool -- you know -- you just take these sides with the fringe on -- see -- and wrap 'em right over you .
`` It's getting so chilly we've lighted a fire , and we're going to tell a round robin story -- a nice , scary one .
In each city civic and education leaders have been working hard to get public opinion prepared to accept the inevitability of equal treatment .
Hansen will be getting a late spring training start , which might very well set him back .
He got off to an exceptional start last season , and under the circumstances probably won't duplicate it .
He'll still be a top player , they concede , because he's got a great glove and the long ball going for him .
Richards got a great performance out of his combination of youth and experience last season .
See , Communese is easy -- once you get onto it .
The owner of the painting got it for $750,000 , sold it for $500,000 in a market crash , and bought it back for $590,000 .
They ran across Mr. Rayburn and the youngster expressed a desire to get the Speaker's autograph .
In addition , it is small enough to get into crevices , jacket and crown margins , malposed anteriors , and the back teeth .
For those who `` like poetry but never get around to reading it '' , the Library of Congress makes it possible for poets to be heard reading their own work .
The most articulate Republicans are those who , in their desire to get back at Mr. Kennedy , already have created the image of a Republican leadership which is reluctant to assist the distressed and the unemployed , and which is even more unwilling to help old people who need medical care .
The situation already was bad because the Legislature moved the governor's race forward a few months , causing the campaigning to get started earlier than usual .
At the height of the first snowstorm we had , it was impossible for me to get medical attention needed during an emergency .
Had they not gotten me to the hospital when they did , perhaps I would not be here to commend them at this time .
Usually a veteran has to hang himself to get space on the front page .
First of all , the admitting physician in the VA hospital gets the patient as a new patient .
I hope the man who plans to sit on his hands until the emergency comes will have a change of heart , will get busy and be the first member of our `` plus-one '' shelter club .
I would like to suggest that the landlords and Commissioners get together and consider liberalizing the practice of prohibiting dogs in apartments .
Writers of ads must get their inspiration from the attitude of `` modern '' parents they have observed .
If we go all gooey over this newest Castro ( until he proves he isn't ) we've got rocks in our heads .
How many times must we get burned before we learn ? ?
They predicted escalation , and escalation is what we are getting .
These are mentalities which crave action -- and they are beginning to get it , as Messrs. Salsich and Engh report on page 372 .
Yet if Washington gets too indignant about Soviet fallout , it will have to do a lot of fast footwork if America decides it too must start pushing up the radiation count .
How much fallout will we get ? ?
The possibility , as he asserted , that the Russians may get ahead of us or come closer to us because of their tests does not supply the needed ethical premise -- unless , of course , we have unwittingly become so brutalized that nuclear superiority is now taken as a moral demand .
Certainly it isn't making the President happy , and he has been doing his apologetic best to explain how the budget got into its unbalanced condition , how he intends to economize wherever he can and how he hopes to do better next year .
To get started , he does not scan the world about him ; ;
Sometimes they get their initial experience in church haflis , conducted by Lebanese and Syrians in the U.S. , where they dance with just as few veils across their bodies as in nightclubs .
Gloria ( surname : Ziraldo ) , circa 30 , who was born in Italy and once did `` chorus work '' in Toronto , has been around longer than most of the others , wistfully remembers the old days when `` we used to get the seamen from the ships , you know , with big turtleneck sweaters and handkerchiefs and all .
But the ships are very slow now , and we don't get so many sailors any more '' .
The big question is whether , in the name of a restored Chinese-Soviet solidarity , the Chinese will choose to persuade the Albanians to present their humble apologies to Khrushchev -- or get rid of Enver Hoxa .
The only hope which the public has for getting good teachers is to pay teachers on the basis of merit rather than tenure .
In short , get this governmental monstrosity off our backs and we won't have to worry about European competition or Communism either .
Despite several years of front-page stories , the average citizen was unable to get a complete picture of McCarthy until he saw on the television screen what the reporters had been seeing all along but had no effective way of communicating .
The objective should be to provide a method of getting into print a higher percentage than is now possible of the relevant information in the possession of reporters and editors .
However , last night the tapes were not run at all during the evening hours and all we got on TV were a few snatches which Douglas Edwards and Huntley and Brinkley could squeeze into their programs .
This is no criticism of them , as they obviously cannot get a half-hour program into a fifteen-minute news summary .
I am interested to know he is getting mail from all over the country about the `` abuse '' he is being subjected to .
The English schools preceded ours , and by the time we got into it they had learned a lot about the techniques of propaganda and its teaching .
One should be able to get hold of the book at once .
It got the kind of scrambled , coarsened performance that can happen to best of orchestras when the man with the baton lacks technique and style .
He is willing to sell it just to get it off his hands .
One of the local callers , a retired brigadier apparently left over from Kipling's tales of India , does not approve of the way Larkin gets his birds .
The man whose reactions and conclusions get the most space is , of course , the Field Marshal himself .
So I made no mention of air transport until we could get at least some of it '' .
So the audience last night was all ears and eyes just after Act 2 , got a rousing opening chorus , `` Where's Charley ? ?
And Paul Lipson , as Morris , the faithful one who never gets home to his Shirley's dinner , was fine , too .
He would like to put several sentences on top of each other so that you could read them all at once , and get all at once , the various shadings and complexities '' .
There is plenty of violence , to be sure , but it is a nice violence and no one gets killed .
The men of Innesfree are got up authentically in cloth caps and sweaters , and their dancing and singing is fine .
He did not let the strings , for instance , weep , whine or get hysterical .
If only they and Fausto Cleva in the pit had got together a bit more .
Claude Jannequin's vocal description of a battle ( the French equivalents of tarantara , rum-tum-tum , and boom-boom-boom are very picturesque ) is lots of fun , and the singers get a sense of grace and shape into other chansons by Jannequin and Lassus .
The poor uneducated newlywed , a certain Gontran De Boismassif , has his problems in getting the necessary information .
It was paired with a Darius Milhaud opera , `` The Poor Sailor '' , set to a libretto by Jean Cocteau , a kind of Grand Guignol by the sea , a sailor returns , unrecognized , and gets done in by his wife .
Sat there and as a woman sang , she kept getting thinner and thinner , right before my eyes , and the eyes of some 5,500 other people .
She had held to the letter of her contract and didn't come onto the stage until well after 4 p.m. , the appointed hour , although the Music at Newport people had tried to get the program underway at 3 .
Then there was a bad delay in getting Mort Lindsey's 30-piece orchestra wedged into its chairs .
Along about 4:30 , just when it was getting to be about time to turn the audience over and toast them on the other side , Judy came on singing , in a short-skirted blue dress with a blue and white jacket that flapped in the wind .
they just sat back on their haunches and cried for more , as though they could never get enough .
He prefers to have his soloist performing and thus we get only brief glimpses of what his ensemble work is like .
What we did get , however , was impressive .
A few drops of rain just before midnight , when Sarah Vaughan was in the midst of her first number , scattered the more timid members of the audience briefly , but at this hour and with Sarah on the stand , most of the listeners didn't care whether they got wet .
He plays his sax principally for beauty of tone , rather than for scintillating flights of meaningless improvisations , and he has a quiet way of getting back and restating the melody after the improvising is over .
The Symphony Of The Air , greatly assisted by Van Cliburn , last night got its seven-concert Beethoven cycle at Carnegie Hall off to a good start .
Like the Gershwins , Richard Rodgers and Lorenz Hart were loath to let a good song get away from them .
All this is great proceedings -- get the minutes .
He asked intimate questions and got frank answers from the members of what he calls the candidates' `` in-groups '' .
Only in its final scene , where Beatie Bryant ( Mary Doyle ) shakes off the disappointment of being jilted by her intellectual lover and proclaims her emancipation do we get much which makes worthwhile the series of boorish rustic happenings we have had to watch for most of the first two and one-half acts .
Beatie , getting no sympathy for her misfortune , soon rallies and finds that although she has lost a lover she has gained her freedom .
The gallant company completed Act 4 , and got through part of Act 5 .
Here , in the most eagerly awaited novel of the season ( his first since The Catcher In The Rye , ) he tells of a college girl in flight from the life around her and the tart but sympathetic help she gets from her 25-year-old brother .
Two noted troupes from overseas will get the fall dance season off to a sparkling start .
Maria goes all out as a Druid princess who gets two-timed by a Roman big shot .
Major to this effort is to get all world powers to withdraw to their own territories , say by 1970 .
Through previous centuries , eating changed by nearly imperceptible degrees , and mostly toward just getting enough .
From his birch-paneled office in the Laboratory of Physiological Hygiene , under the university's football stadium in Minneapolis ( `` We get a rumble on every touchdown '' ) , blocky , grey-haired Dr. Keys directs an ambitious , $200,000-a-year experiment on diet , which spans three continents and seven nations and is still growing .
Throughout much of the world , food is still so scarce that half of the earth's population has trouble getting the 1,600 calories a day necessary to sustain life .
Says Keys : `` Maybe if the idea got around again that obesity is immoral , the fat man would start to think '' .
Or ( more commonly , thinks Keys ) the deposits themselves get so big that they choke off the artery's flow to the point that an infarct occurs : the heart muscle is suffocated , cells supplied by the artery die , and the heart is permanently , perhaps fatally injured .
Not until long after the war -- 1950 , in fact -- did they get a hint of the reason .
Had it done so , the blot on its escutcheon would have remained indelible , nor could the Harvard Divinity School assemble today to honor Parker's insurgence other than by getting down on its collective knees and crying `` peccavi '' .
It was a session at which all the youngsters were told to express their fears , to get them out in the open where they could talk about them freely .
Yet they keep running from one physician to another , largely to get a willing ear who will listen to their parade of troubles .
It must be getting more serious .
We consume tons of aspirin and tranquilizers and sleeping pills in order to get a moment's relief from the tensions that are tearing us apart .
Suppose we do get our fears out in the open , what then ? ?
This gets down to the heart of our problem , for it reconciles us with God , whom we fear most of all because we have sinned against Him .
After returning to the United States and raising the money , he discovered on getting back to Japan that the hours were no longer available .
Against such a termination of human life on earth by human action , he then proposes as an alternative that we `` negotiate at once with the Russians and get the best terms which are available '' , that we deliberately `` negotiate from comparative weakness '' .
Often they are able to get in only because the area is declining economically .
so we get the whole state covered with peas , about four feet deep .
we get 250,000 planets ; ;
If I could put your body in an imaginary atomic press and squeeze you down , squeeze these holes out of you in the way we squeeze the holes out of a sponge , you would get smaller and smaller until finally when the last hole was gone , you would be smaller than the smallest speck of dust that you could see on this piece of paper .
Now as you step inside , instead of seeing particles orbiting around like planets , you see waves and ripples very much like the ripples that you get on the surface of a pond when you drop a stone into it .
Thereupon Hwang Pah said : `` If I knew thou art an Arhat , I would have doubled you up before thou got over there '' ! !
Visualize them , then , believe you are getting them , and you will have them '' ! !
Starr Jones gets up every morning at five o'clock , milks his family cow , attends to farm chores , and then takes a two-hour train trip to New York .
Rose Weiss , who handles all the prayer-requests that we receive , answering each letter personally , has the serene selflessness that comes from suffering : she has had many major operations , and now gets about in a limited way on braces and crutches .
It just got longer and longer '' .
I like to shear half my plants at a time , leaving one half of them to blossom while the second half is getting started on its new round of blooming .
But you will never get better flowers than the seed you grow .
It is a flavor that might take a little getting used to -- not because it is unpleasant , but because the flavor is hard to define in the light of our experience with other fruits .
An aircraft with a load of small nuclear weapons could very conceivably be given a mission to suppress all trains operating within a specified geographic area of Russia -- provided that we had used some of our ICBMs to degrade Russia's air defenses before our bombers got there .
By recognizing and helping Juniors get interested in the dog world , all will be helping to create future dog owners .
Man had enough to worry about managing to get up there and stay without being burdened with rules once aloft .
Tend to make this dimension slightly undersize so you can file the screw head to get exactly 1/4'' '' tappet movement .
Endeavor to get the notches as much alike as possible .
Applying these figures to the formula we get the equation : Af .
In going away Debonnie got behind several lengths , stalling at the start -- she is a little fussy .
Cathy J. Hanover ( Tar Heel-Kaola Hanover ) , formerly called Karet Hanover , has been rather a problem child , but is getting better all the while and can pace a twice around in about 2:31 .
The combination of thin pattern and very tiny pellets makes it necessary to get on the birds , right now ! !
A fresh crop of beginners' guns showed up in 1961 , and they're good bets for your Christmas gift list if you're wondering what to get for a youngster .
Dwellers thereabouts preferred to get their apple pies at the local bakery , which had a brick oven fired with redwood billets .
The recipe , which he got from the baker , and wrote down in his ledger , is basically this :
For example , the Chamber of Commerce of Gatlinburg , Tennessee , sponsors special camera tours into the Great Smoky Mountains to get pictures of the profusion of wild flowers flourishing in these wooded regions .
Just after sunset is a good time to record the city lights in color since you get a `` fill-in '' light from the sky .
Easy to get to , and becoming more popular every year , it is only fourteen hours from New York by Pan American World Airways jet , four hours from Rome .
I got off there , crossed the street , walked ahead with St. Sophia on my left , the Blue Mosque on my right , and in a moment came to the entrance of St. Sophia .
There I got off , crossed the square , and on the side directly opposite the gate found a good restaurant , hard to come by in this part of the city .
( This goes for getting a drink tray ready , and for having a big cooler full of ice on hand long before the party begins .
With them , you can carry steaks and hamburgers at refrigerator temperatures , and also get your frozen food for stews and chowders , to the marina or picnic , in A-1 condition .
Be sure to get a few more than you need .
After planking , the bottom gets a layer of Fiberglas .
This will permit you to get a rough estimate of how much the materials for the shell will cost .
On most drill presses , it is impossible to get the exact speed , but you can come close by adjusting the drive belt on the step-cone pulleys .
We gently usher them to an island of tables and chairs strategically placed on the far side of the pool where they can amuse each other until we get ready to merge sides .
But there's no denying that the easiest and most economical way to get year-'round whole-house air conditioning is when you build .
You can get year-'round air conditioners in the same variety of styles in which you buy a furnace alone -- high or low boy , horizontal or counterflow .
Be sure ducts that require insulation get it when they are installed .
Be sure you get a perimeter heating system , and diffusers that will work as well for cooling as they do for heating .
You can get a hot water system that will also work for cooling your house .
You can get this added heating feature for as little as $200 more than the price of cooling alone .
A ton of cooling compares to the cooling you get by melting a ton of ice .
This gives you a better opportunity to get the feel of the climate conditions , the exposure to the sun and wind , the water interests , etcetera , which vary greatly with the seasons .
The historical sign tells its story , but nothing gets interest across as well as some of the original historical items or places themselves which still have the character of the period covered .
If a nation wished to get a head start in physical fitness over all other nations , it would start its kindergarten students on a program of gymnastics the day they entered and thus eliminate a large number of the problems that plague American schools .
By submerging the patient in a tub and rotating the transducer while the scanning goes on , they have been able to get cross-section views of the neck , as shown in Fig. 7 , as well as many other hitherto impossible insights .
An aid in getting cattle and sheep on full feed , in improving feed conversion and growth , in reducing bloat and founder , and in controlling scours .
-- 1.0 gram premix per head per day for promoting growth , feed conversion , and getting lambs on full feed earlier .
Have cost studies been made of every phase of your operation to determine what might be done if things get worse ? ?
Are annual marketing plans reviewed throughout your management group to get the perspective of all individuals and get everyone on the marketing team ? ?
Are annual marketing plans reviewed throughout your management group to get the perspective of all individuals and get everyone on the marketing team ? ?
It is possible , of course , to work on extant or projected buildings where either architect or owner will explain their necessities so that the student may get `` the feel '' of real interior design demands .
If coffee is sold at the cafeteria , let a few workers in each department get it for the whole group .
And with the shutdown method there will be no argument as to who gets the choice vacation dates .
Are you getting top dollar from the shooting sports ? ?
Camping is big and getting bigger .
Long weekends enable many to get away from home for three or four days several times a year .
And even if they stay in resorts part of the time , they might , if the right salesman gets them in tow , develop a yearning to spice the usual vacation fare with a camping trip into the wide open spaces .
It's fun , and it's easy -- so easy that there is time left after cooking , and tent keeping , for the women to get out and enjoy outdoor fun with their families .
It is always difficult , or at least time-consuming , to get approval of any kind of line under a public street , as one example .
How does Tri-State get its revenue from this plan ? ?
The major gets the assured gallonage for the life of the lease and the distributor apparently can do well because delivery cost is low .
The job of getting property easements and street easements and the acre for the tanks would become pretty discouraging .
The thermostat is important to get your engine up to operating temperature quickly , and to keep it running at its most efficient temperature through the proper circulation of the coolant .
With many company policies you get a fleet discount if you insure five or more rigs .
New rule no. 3 : rethink everything to get all the big savings the revolution in materials handling offers you
The SCR process , with its precision corner-posts , its precision guide lines , its working level scaffold , and its hand-level brick supply takes eight manhours to get set , but once ready it makes it easy for bricklayers to lay a thousand bricks a day .
If you've travelled in Europe a time or two , it is quite certain that you've had that wanting-to-be-alone feeling or that you will get it on your next visit across the Atlantic .
The disadvantages to this method are that you may not have as great a choice of models readily available or you may have to wait a few days or , during the busy tourist season , when cars are in great demand , you might find it fairly difficult to get a car at all .
Then , too , European drivers have reputations for being somewhat crazy on the road and some Americans are not particularly keen on getting mixed up with them .
It was getting on toward 7 o'clock and the German Me-210 plane had been and gone on its eighth straight visit .
Like hell he'd wait -- and supposing the radar-controlled gun got knocked out ? ?
They got it over the side and clambered aboard only a few minutes before their schooner went under .
Where can we get this cereal he likes so much '' ? ?
To solve the problem of the wheat grains spilling on the floor and getting underfoot , a ball of maple syrup boiled to candy consistency was invented to hold the grains .
As a matter of fact , Fogg and his plane didn't get beyond Pennsylvania in the race -- an engine oil leak forced him down -- but the flying service and school he started subsequently were first steps in paying off his wry-faced backers .
`` But Fogg '' , they countered , `` we can't get over there .
Later on in the day Fogg could get a better weather picture from the Burlington Weather Bureau supervised by Frank E. Hartwell .
( He'd get the engine oil flowing with an electric heater under a big canvas cover .
Usually back in Concord by noon , there was just time to get partially thawed out , refuel , and grab a bit of Mrs. Fogg's hot broth before starting the second trip .
Once the soldiers from the barracks had to hold the ship from blowing away while Fogg revved the engine and got the tail up .
How did I get to be sixty-five so fast ? ?
You realize you are getting in the old fogy class .
To put it bluntly , you are getting out-moded .
Well , to get back to the problem of retirement .
You've got to learn to live with it .
It seems to me , the first thing you've got to do , to be happy , is to face up to your problems , no matter what they may be .
Make up your mind to pool your resources and get the most out of your remaining years of life .
One thing , I am sure of , you must get an interest in life .
You've got to do something .
When you see a needle in my hands you will know the family buttons have fallen off and I have to sew them back on , or get out the safety pins .
Some women get a real thrill out of housework .
I haven't got that kind of money '' .
It's getting interested in something that counts .
These cases , for all their rarity , are so dramatic that friends and relations repeat the story until the general population may get an entirely false notion of how often the hymen is a serious problem to newly-weds .
The false reasoning is that a gradual advance prolongs the pain while a swift powerful act gets it over with and leaves the girl pleased with his virility and grateful for his decisiveness in settling the problem once and for all .
The husband is usually a well-educated professional , preoccupied with his job -- often an organization man whose motto for getting ahead is : `` Don't rock the boat '' .
`` To get a marriage back where it belongs '' , comments Dr. Schillinger of the Lincoln Institute , `` the husband must take some very basic steps .
It was when she was seized as a material witness that she got the designation she liked best .
She lied in order to get it .
`` Diane is the type of girl '' , Jelke said , `` who wouldn't get loving -- even on her wedding night -- unless you piled up all your money in the middle of the floor '' .
Houston police got to know Diane two years ago when the vice squad picked her up for questioning about a call girl ring .
`` A maid told us that she still bragged about getting $50 a date .
Mrs. Shaefer never got around to joining the thousand or so people who paid Lee some $30,000 for his ozone machines .
After his pains got worse , Tom decided to see a real doctor , from whom he learned he was suffering from cancer of the lung .
When authorities convicted him of practicing medicine without a license ( he got off with a suspended sentence of three years because of his advanced age of 77 ) , one of his victims was not around to testify : He was dead of cancer .
People who have not been able to get relief from regular medical doctors are especially apt to be taken in by quacks '' .
To get around this quite difficult corner , there is one first aid to objectiveness : prevent the distant sitter from knowing which reading was for him .
If asked how she gets her impressions , she probably can only say that she `` just gets them '' -- some more vividly than others .
If asked how she gets her impressions , she probably can only say that she `` just gets them '' -- some more vividly than others .
Even in normal experience one gets impressions without knowing exactly how -- of atmosphere , of one another's personalities , moods , intentions .
The farmer must get up early , and , at times , work late at night .
A part-time farmer needs unusual skill to get as high production per hen , per cow , or per acre as can be obtained by a competent full-time farmer .
If these facilities are not at the door , getting them may cost more than you expect .
You may have to provide them yourself or get along without them .
You cannot get along without an adequate supply of pure water .
If you can't tell , get help from your county agricultural agent or other local specialist .
Otherwise , you may pay too much for the farm and get nothing for your labor .
To figure the value of the farm in terms of investment income , divide the estimated annual net farm income by the percentage that you could expect to get in interest if the money were invested in some other way .
`` I expect to be tough as a knott as soon as I get over the Georgia Shitts '' .
A Michigan soldier wrote his brother : `` I am well at present with the exception I have got the Dyerear and I hope thease few lines find you the same '' .
I would tell them I got a letter from home stating that five of my Negroes had runaway and ten of Pappy's .
We got to one house where there were five secessionists .
They get all the glory and most of the pay and don't earn ten cents apiece on the average , the drunken rascals '' .
The commercial propagandist , who can't afford to be critical , gets along well with the amateur , from whom he feeds , but he frequently steps on the analyst's toes by refusing to keep his material genuine .
Dominated by the vicious circle of the university promotion system , the analyst looks down on and gets along poorly with the other three groups , although he cannot deny his debt to the collector .
When he gets the answers to his questions he will be discouraged .
He then got a job with the Chicago Herald-Examiner as a circulation slugger , a rough fighter employed to see that his paper's news pitches were not trespassed upon by rival vendors .
Why , I can get them knocked off for half that much '' .
By means of charts showing wave-travel times and depths in the ocean at various locations , it is possible to estimate the rate of approach and probable time of arrival at Hawaii of a tsunami getting under way at any spot in the Pacific .
Though he knew no more about military science and tactics than any other desk officer , he managed to get transferred to the combat forces .
In combat , helping your CO make a fool of himself might mean getting yourself killed .
And so Mel Chandler got the spirit of Garryowen .
but if providing higher standards of living gets in the way of producing sufficient guns to resist Communist aggression , then material sacrifices and denials will have to be made .
If we look at the situation this way , we can get an idea of Khrushchev's nightmarish worries -- or , at least , of the worries he might have if his enemies were disposed to exploit their advantage .
The American newspaperman worried about getting to the cable office .
And getting them seemed a life's work .
Although we enjoyed our rounds of the government offices in Vientiane , with officials offering tea and pleasing conversation in French , we were getting nowhere .
`` It means that you have to get ahead '' .
to get happiness for yourself -- 28 per cent ; ;
His brother ran a mile to get the father ; ;
`` get a bite , spit on it '' was a proverb .
At times pioneer children got lice in their hair .
The one way to get around them -- short of knowing exactly what one wants and sticking to it -- is to frequent a single establishment until its wine waiter is persuaded that one is at least as interested in wine as in spending money .
Of the fifty-two slaves , Giffen succeeded in getting a lot of twenty , twelve of whom were females .
Yet even if he could get the necessary approval , fourteen of his Negroes could not be manumitted without special permission .
All the slaves joined in requesting that they be allowed to delay their departure until the end of the planting season , so that they could get in `` their own little produce '' .
After an initial rejection , which he attributed to a `` general Excitement against Abolition and Emancipation '' , Giffen bribed the right individuals on the jury , and got the permission without further delay .
There is much to be said for a college that , while happily attuned to the sophisticated Ivies , still gives its students a chance to get up early in the morning and drive along back roads where a glimpse of small game , deer , or even bear is not uncommon .
The cook got drunk , and President Wheelock proved to be a man of broad talents by carving the ox himself .
Fall River police did go to Westport to see if they could get any information against Morse and possibly find an accomplice whom he might have hired from among these men .
If Bridget did get any bundles of cash , the last person who would have rewarded her for services rendered would have been Lizzie Borden .
Who won is not revealed , but Winslow's daughter Eleanor says they got up to 1,212 words .
Practically all of these practical skills are of such a nature that a degree of mastery can be obtained in high school sufficient to enable the youth to get a job at once on the basis of the skill .
Similarly , a girl who graduates with a good working knowledge of stenography and the use of clerical machines and who is able to get a job at once may wish to improve her skill and knowledge by a year or two of further study in a community college or secretarial school .
It is far more difficult in many communities to obtain admission to an apprentice program which involves union approval than to get into the most selective medical school in the nation .
In the city , he said , the waiting list for those who want to join the union is so long that unless a boy has an inside track he can't get in .
`` But isn't it almost impossible to get into the union '' ? ?
To stir cattle up and get 'em heated and excited was to `` mustard the cattle '' , and the act was called `` ginnin' 'em 'round '' , or `` chousin' 'em '' .
The counters rode through the pasture countin' each bunch of grazin' cattle , and drifted it back so that it didn't get mixed with the uncounted cattle ahead .
Later , the word became almost exclusively applied to a cow thief , startin' from the days of the maverick when cowhands were paid by their employers to `` get out and rustle a few mavericks '' .
Kearton got off and tore up some dry grass that grew in cracks between the rocks and piled it in a heap and wanted to make the smoke signal that would bring Loveless and Means and the rest of the party .
Ulyate drew back with a start , and put finger to lips , almost afraid to move or whisper lest it set her off , `` The dogs have got her bayed .
And he hasn't even got a knife on him .
He couldn't get away from her in this kind of ground .
She whirled and faced him , roaring terribly , and Ulyate , watching through the leaves , could not understand why she did not charge and obliterate him , because he wouldn't have much of a chance of getting away , in that thick growth , but she seemed just a trace uncertain ; ;
`` We've got to get her out of there '' ! !
`` We've got to get her out of there '' ! !
For two hours they drove her from one strong point to another along the side of the Reef , trying to maneuver her onto the plain where they could get a good throw .
`` I'll get a pole '' , Jones said finally , `` and I'll poke a noose over her head '' ! !
With a whirling jump , it could get into gear .
At one point in the game when the skinny old man in suspenders who was acting as umpire got in the way of a thrown ball and took it painfully in the kidneys , he lay there unattended while players and spectators wrangled over whether the ball was `` dead '' or the base runners were free to score .
Radio , however , so increased the interest of women in the game that it was hardly necessary even to have `` Ladies' Days '' any longer to enable men to get to the ball park without interference at home .
and they censured parents who `` never disciplined and were too permissive '' or who `` never explained how easy it was to get pregnant '' .
`` It is a much easier course to agree to let one another alone so far as ordinary patents are concerned '' , said a trade authority , `` than to continue the costly effort of straightening the tangle in the courts or seeking to reform the patent system , which appears to be getting into deeper confusion every day '' .
By seeing such varied places , both interesting and beautiful , you will become aware of the many different civilizations Rome has lived through , and in particular , get a feel of Renaissance Rome .
I know Negroes who prefer the South and white Southerners , because `` At least there , you haven't got to play any guessing games '' ! !
Will not the righteous congressman be cheered at the polls if he reminds them to get right with America and if he saves the taxpayer some money by spoiling a few of their schemes ? ?
`` The trouble , '' explained Loy Henderson , then Deputy Undersecretary for Administration , `` is that when we get into an argument with him about this thing , it always turns out that Rooney knows more about our budget than we do '' .
He elected to `` get along '' .
Here are hatched plans for getting a share of the American bounty , the secret of the anti-missile missile , or an invitation to dinner .
A reporter who consulted a Middle East Information officer for routine vital statistics got nowhere until the State Department man produced from his bottom desk drawer a brochure published by the Arabian-American Oil Company .
`` This is where I get my information from '' , he confided .
It's the only copy I've got '' .
At Osaka , Mr. Yoneda had to leave us to get the train to his home , but Mr. Nishima and I had an hour and a half before train time to see Osaka at night .
Masu also uses the training she got in an American home where she learned to polish furniture , clean corners , and work effectively in keeping a shiny house .
In addition to the authentication and acknowledgment procedures which precede and follow the sending of the go messages , again in special codes , each message also contains an `` internal authenticator '' , another specific signal to convince the recipient that he is getting the real thing .
`` Once I get out on the flat I do .
At the corroborees , when they get to dancing and sweating , you'll see them rubbing up against a man who's supposed to have a specially good smell .
Those who actually get there find that it isn't spooky at all but as brilliant as a tile in sunlight .
his requesting , and often getting , higher wages , better working conditions , better schools -- changes that were slowly emerging even before the Supreme Court decision of 1954 .
We get some clue from a few remembrances of childhood and from the circumstance that we are probably not much more afraid of people now than man ever was .
This almost trivial example is nevertheless suggestive , for there are some elements in common between the antique fear that the days would get shorter and shorter and our present fear of war .
We use terms from our personal experience with individuals such as `` trust '' , `` cheat '' , and `` get tough '' .
Hamm's world is death and Clov may or may not get out of it to join the living child outside .
My brother and mother got no value from their religion when they died .
I left the party as soon as possible and got into a taxi .
One beatnik got the woman he was living with so involved in drugs and self-analysis and all-night sessions of sex that she was beginning to crack up .
It is something which most of us try to get out from under .
But didn't they get off too easy ? ?
To get it out into the daylight's glow Is my life's aim both first and last , the whole .
In this way , the private detective gets the best of two possible worlds .
In the end , he gets his man , but no one seems to care ; ;
Presumably a cocktail party is expected to fulfill the host's desire to get together a number of people who are inadequately acquainted and thereby arrange for bringing the level of acquaintance up to adequacy for future cooperative endeavors .
A point like p gets information directly from n , but all information beyond n is indirectly relayed through n .
The dweller at p is last to hear about a new cure , the slowest to announce to his neighbors his urgent distresses , the one who goes the farthest to trade , and the one with the greatest difficulty of all in putting over an idea or getting people to join him in a cooperative effort .
We of the liberal-led world got all set for peace and rehabilitation .
Proprietorships should get the tax advantages now accruing to corporations , e.g. the chance to accumulate capital so vital for growth .
Incest is still a durable theme , but if it wants to get written about it will have to find ways to surprise the emotions , and there is no better way to do this than that of concealment and symbolic representation .
A smart , shrewd and ambitious young man , well connected , and with a knack for getting in the good graces of important people , he was bound to go far .
Henrietta , however , was at that time engaged in a lengthy correspondence with Joe's older and more serious brother , Morris , who was just about her own age and whom she had got to know well during trips to Philadelphia with Papa , when he substituted for Rabbi Jastrow at Rodeph Shalom Temple there during its Rabbi's absence in Europe .
`` we've got Father and Mother and each other '' said Beth on the first page of Louisa Alcott's Little Women ; ;
Sadie , like Beth March , suffered ill health -- got rheumatic fever and had to be careful of her heart -- but that never dampened her spirits .
So I got out .
The first thing to do is get her some money by a temporary but definite adjustment pending a final disposition of the case .
To get an idea of the embarrassment and chagrin that was heaped upon Wright and Olgivanna , we should bear in mind that the raids were sometimes led by Miriam in person .
As he made plans for the new Taliesin , Wright also got on paper his conception of a cathedral of steel and glass to house a congregation of all faiths , and the idea for a planetarium with a sloping ramp .
Lewis remembered another newspaperman asking , `` Carl , have your ideas changed any since you got all these comforts '' ? ?
The impression you get from Carl Sandburg's home is one of laughter and happiness ; ;
She read everything else she could get her hands on , including an article ( she thinks it was in the Atlantic Monthly ) by Mark Twain on `` White Slavery '' .
It was getting so that we , the Committee , were being tried .
It takes a great deal of sophisticated thought to get the impact of this fact '' .
He swore so loudly at the top of his voice , that she didn't get any sleep all the next night .
Although after much trouble he did manage to get it back , he discovered there was no trade to be had .
As for missionaries , even if they succeeded in getting into the country they probably would not be allowed to preach the Christian faith to the Burmans .
With her son evidencing so strong a musical bent his mother could do little else but get him started on the study of music -- though she waited until he was ten -- beginning with the piano and following that with the trumpet .
When he heard that Paul Whiteman was looking for singers to replace the Rhythm Boys , Mercer applied and got the job , `` not for my voice , I'm sure , but because I could write songs and material generally '' .
After we got a script and the spots for the songs were blocked out , we'd get together for an hour or so every day .
After we got a script and the spots for the songs were blocked out , we'd get together for an hour or so every day .
That unused room was large enough for -- well , say an elephant could get into it and , as a matter of fact , an elephant did .
It so happened that sports writer Arthur Robinson got out of the hospital that morning after promising his doctor that he be back in an hour or two to continue his convalescence .
Then he would get to his feet , as though rising in honor of his own remarkable powers , and say almost invariably , `` Gentlemen , this is an amazing story ! !
Much to Damon Runyon's amazement , as well as my own , I got along splendidly with the Hetman ; ;
He got her dozens of them .
To get him to pose , Mrs. Coolidge would feed him candy , so he enjoyed the portrait sessions as well as she did .
I still have the dress , and I hope to give it to the Smithsonian Institution as a memento , or , as I more fondly hope , to present it to a museum containing articles showing the daily lives of the Presidents -- if I can get it organized .
But to get back to the Coolidge household , Mrs. Coolidge so obviously loved dogs , that the public sent her more dogs -- Calamity Jane , Timmy , and Blackberry .
All the dogs would dash to get on the elevator with the President and go to the dining room .
You can imagine that he got pretty good service .
The President helped her a lot by selecting some lovely colored dresses to get her started .
For what we propose , however , a psychoanalyst is not necessary , even though one aim is to enable the reader to get beneath his own defenses -- his defenses of himself to himself .
In the range and variety of characters who , in their literary lives , get along all right with life styles one never imagined possible , there is an implicit lesson in differentiation .
`` Mr. Hearst '' , Lane replied as he left , `` if you ever get a telegram from me asking you to do anything , you can put the telegram down as a forgery '' .
Attorney Shearn had worked on this for two years and had succeeded in getting a report supporting his stand from the United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York .
He might get votes from his constituents , but he would never get a helping hand in Congress .
He might get votes from his constituents , but he would never get a helping hand in Congress .
It has been a long time since he has seen any campaign money , and when the proposition is laid down to him as the friends of Mr. Hearst are laying it down these days he is quite likely to get aboard the Hearst bandwagon '' .
He's got a lot of friends , and he ought to come along and let us know if he wants our help '' .
`` Well , I might not get that far '' , I told them , `` as actually I have no papers to enter Germany and , as a matter of fact , no permit to return to France once I leave '' .
As I got off the trolley at Kehl bridge the next morning , I was met by what looked like 5,000 students , some of whom were carrying sticks apparently for the coming `` battle '' with the police .
`` I shall see about getting you a tent '' , he said .
The day passed eventfully enough , with a constant stream of visitors , some stopping only to say hello , others getting into serious conversations , such as one Andre Fuchs , a free-lance journalist from Strasbourg who wrote an article for the Nouvelle Alsatian in highly sympathetic terms .
He never knew how he got there .
A horse needed twenty pounds of food a day but the infantryman got along with two pounds .
To relieve the itch and sweat galls , the men got into the water whenever they could and since each sizable stream was generally the dividing line between the armies the pickets declared a private truce while the men went swimming .
Most of the Rebels got away since they could make better time through the stiff brush than their naked pursuers .
At General Headquarters the newcomer in turn got to know others .
Having done so , he began to experience all the frustrations of others who attempted to get along with Serenissimus and do a job at the same time .
There's a man who never goes by the ordinary road but still arrives at his goal , who gratuitously gets himself into difficulty in order to get out of it with eclat , in a word a man who creates monsters for himself in order to appear a Hercules in destroying them '' .
There's a man who never goes by the ordinary road but still arrives at his goal , who gratuitously gets himself into difficulty in order to get out of it with eclat , in a word a man who creates monsters for himself in order to appear a Hercules in destroying them '' .
He dabbled in verse , could get along well among most of the European languages , and was fluent in French and German .
It was probably at this period that Littlepage got his first good look at the ordinary Russian soldier .
`` He's got high blood pressure , too , and bum kidneys '' , the doctor said to me .
By this time word had got around that an American doctor was on the premises .
After luncheon we took advantage of the siesta period to try to get in touch with a few people to whom our dear friend Deppy had written .
And then perhaps one day we get to Athens .
To Pike , silence was tantamount to an admission of guilt , and he determined to get Robinson onto the dueling ground at all costs .
Preoccupied with his own defense and his attempts to get Robinson to fight , Pike lessened his attacks on Woodruff , and finally stopped them altogether .
Woodruff wanted this political windfall very badly , and everyone assumed that he would get it because he was a close friend of the governor and his stanchest supporter .
He got a good fat job and we congratulate him on his good luck .
He defied the Boston hierarchy , and after they sent a small army to get him he befuddled the court , including John Cotton , with one of the most complicated religious discourses ever heard .
Providence finally managed to get Gorton out of the town , and he and some friends bought land at Pawtuxet on the west side of Narragansett Bay , five miles south but still within the jurisdiction of the Providence colony .
Up to now , Gorton had been looking for trouble , and now that he was trying to get away from it , trouble started looking for him .
As it was the custom of that alert colony to take over the property of persons asking for protection , this was an act roughly equivalent to throwing open the door to a pack of wolves and saying `` Come and get it '' .
The next week , forty soldiers were sent to get the miscreants .
The men fortified a blockhouse and got ready to fight , but meanwhile appealed to the King and again tried to arbitrate .
The three others got off easier .
`` It was mighty good for the old man to get out again '' .
We got Dr. Glenn to him as quickly as we could , and we wired Tom of Papa's desperate condition .
`` Dr. Glenn , I've got a lot of blood '' , Fred spoke up , `` plenty of it .
I have known Papa to exclaim on getting his tax bill , `` we're going to the dogs '' ! !
The selective and directional qualities of basic value-orientations are clearly evident in these data : the `` success-oriented '' students choose vocational preparation , the `` other-directed '' choose goals of social adjustment ( `` getting along with people '' ) , the `` intellectuals '' choose a liberal arts emphasis .
`` They straggle at such a rate '' , he told the commander-in-chief , `` that if the enemy were enterprising , they might get two from us , when we would take one of them , which makes me wish General Howe would go on , lest any incident happen to us '' .
The Frenchman had been ordered to approach the enemy's lines , harass them and get intelligence of their movements .
Time went on and everybody got older .
I became fifteen , sixteen , then twenty , and still Tessie Alpert sat on the porch with a rose in her hair , and Alfred got richer and sicker with diabetes .
Instead she waited for Alfred to get better and take care of her .
Alfred was getting too sick to stay in his own home .
Alfred walked past him without a word and got into the car .
I don't think he ever got to drink any of it .
Every chance I got I left the hotel to visit Lilly .
Finally we got them out of the house , after the boy had run away four times looking for other Nazis , threatening to murder village schoolchildren and bragging that he was to be the next Fuhrer .
Later , rising ninety , he was beset by publishers for the story of his life and miracles , as he put it , but , calling himself the Needy Knife-grinder , he had spent his time writing short articles and long letters and could not get even a small popular book done .
He looked at her as she spoke , then got up as she was speaking still , and , simply and wordlessly , walked out .
if Breasted agreed , they would get a car and tour the country , visiting every kind of industrial center .
It was a dinner party , Lewis had been drinking during the afternoon , and long before the party really got under way , he was quite drunk , with the result that the party broke up even before dinner was over .
Then they returned to their hotel and got ready for bed .
Even to be `` from hope and fear set free '' is at least better than to have lost the first without having got rid of the second .
The reason is , I think , my awareness that my remarks last quarter on pacifism may well have served to confirm the opinion of some that my tendency to skepticism and dissent gets us nowhere , and that I am simply too old to hope .
But I've got news for Krim : he's not typical , he's pretty special .
they did not fall into pseudo-glamorous jobs on pseudo-glamorous magazines , but they did whatever nasty thing they could get in order to eat ; ;
Krim was able to get an advance for a novel , and time and opportunity to write at Yaddo , but it was no good .
their example caused Krim and his friends to put on `` Englishy airs , affect all sorts of impressive scholarship and social-register unnaturalness in order to slip through their narrow transoms and get into their pages '' .
He alludes to something called direct writing , and he finds that criticism gets in the way of his truer , realer , imaginative bounce .
In such a case , however , we would encourage the recipient country to get on with its programing task , supply it with substantial technical assistance in performing that task , and make it plain that an expansion or even a continuation of our assistance to the country's development was conditional upon programing progress being made .
Yet an economy cannot get the most out of its resources if dishonesty , corruption , and favoritism are widespread .
In fact , one of the major reasons for the failure of the ill-starred expedition appears to have been a lack of full information on the extent to which Cuba has been getting this Russian military equipment .
For years the United States had been trying to get these countries to exclude Castro's representative from secret military talks .
If any official operation abroad begins to go wrong , we shall look to the ambassador to find out why and to get suggestions for remedial action .
He may get a tax refund .
We are , as we know , utterly dependent on the quality of advice we get ; ;
and quality of advice , added to devotion to the Foundation's purposes and ideals , we do get from our Advisory Board in measures so full that they can be appreciated only by those of us who work here every day .
That is , to put it realistically , they had to run their businesses at a profit , or they had to get the votes to get elected .
That is , to put it realistically , they had to run their businesses at a profit , or they had to get the votes to get elected .
If the direct-sum decomposition ( A ) is valid , how can we get hold of the projections Af associated with the decomposition ? ?
For example , the marksman gets 5 shots , but we take his score to be the number of shots before his first bull's-eye , that is , 0 , 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 ( or 5 , if he gets no bull's-eye ) .
For example , the marksman gets 5 shots , but we take his score to be the number of shots before his first bull's-eye , that is , 0 , 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 ( or 5 , if he gets no bull's-eye ) .
The marksman gets two bull's-eyes , one on his third shot and one on his fifth .
In their own words , it had aided them to get a clearer picture of how they had gotten into their marriages , and perhaps they had obtained some insights on why certain troubles appeared from time to time .
In their own words , it had aided them to get a clearer picture of how they had gotten into their marriages , and perhaps they had obtained some insights on why certain troubles appeared from time to time .
By permitting freshman students we might extend the opportunity for such a course to some individuals who otherwise might never get to take it .
The philosophy has been that if they could find the time to attend class why not encourage them to get the credit and perhaps provide an incentive to do the work more effectively .
After that , we began to get `` visitors '' to class .
For instance , the following statement was rated low in compulsivity , `` She's naturally quite neat about things , but it doesn't bother her at all if her room gets messy .
From the point of view of the applicants , less time was wasted in being evaluated -- and they got a meal out of it as well as some insights into their performances .
To prevent the manager from deliberately controlling himself only during the sessions , they were rather lengthy ( about twenty minutes ) , the situations were imperfectly described to the manager so that he would not know what to expect , new antagonists were brought on the scene unexpectedly , and the antagonists were instructed to deliberately behave in such ways as to upset the manager and get him to operate in a manner for which he had been previously criticized .
For example , one hebephrenic man used to annoy me , month after month , by saying , whenever I got up to leave and made my fairly steoreotyped comment that I would be seeing him on the following day , or whenever , `` You're welcome '' , in a notably condescending fashion -- as though it were his due for me to thank him for the privilege of spending the hour with him , and he were thus pointing up my failure to utter a humbly grateful , `` thank you '' to him at the end of each session .
in working with these patients the therapist eventually gets to do some at least private mulling over of the possible meaning of a belch , or the passage of flatus , not only because he is reduced to this for lack of anything else to analyze , but also because he learns that even these animal-like sounds constitute forms of communication in which , from time to time , quite different things are being said , long before the patient can become sufficiently aware of these , as distinct feelings and concepts , to say them in words .
Thus the unstressed it of it rarely snows here gets its significance from its use with snows : nothing can snow snow but `` it '' .
Here again , in the written language it is possible to help the reader get his stresses right by using underlining or italics , but much of the time there is simply reliance on his understanding in the light of context .
There is little evidence that existing public or private training programs have any great difficulty getting students to enroll in their programs , even though they must pay tuition , receive no subsistence payments , and are not guaranteed a job .
The study of odd-lot indices is somehow akin to the spectacle of a man trying to outfox his own shadow , what with all observers trying to get on the side of the `` few '' at the same time .
If you got too many people investing by this method , their operations would begin to affect stock prices , and thus throw the charts off .
The pattern of general business activity which probably lies ahead of us is a further moderate softening through the spring of 1961 before a new rise in economic activity gets under way .
By the end of the spring of 1961 , assuming that a general business recovery gets under way , interest rates should begin to edge upward again , depending upon the vigor of the recovery and the determination with which the monetary authorities move to restrain credit availability .
The consuming public has used up a good part of these liquid assets , or they have been drained by the rising price level , and we have apparently gotten to the end of the line in making consumer or home mortgage terms easier .
The matter got into the courts this way : One of the early strikes called by the AWOC was at the DiGiorgio pear orchards in Yuba County .
The young child learns from parents and teachers that temper tantrums , screaming , kicking , and hitting will not get him what he wants ; ;
The child in the primary grades can play harmoniously with one companion , but his desire to be first in everything gets him into trouble when the group gets larger ; ;
The child in the primary grades can play harmoniously with one companion , but his desire to be first in everything gets him into trouble when the group gets larger ; ;
Successful teaching involves getting enough information about each pupil to understand why he behaves as he does in certain situations and how his achievement in school is being influenced by various factors in his environment .
Again the problem is how to get it done and in what form to offer the group relations education ; ;
This does not necessarily mean that such teachers will favor vocational education , as contrasted with liberal education , but they are likely to favor an approach to liberal education which has a maximal vocational-advancement value , as against a kind of `` pure '' liberal education that is not designed to help people get better jobs .
They are in themselves neutral , and , so far as they get a moral quality , they get it only through being invested with it by the attitude of the onlooker .
They are in themselves neutral , and , so far as they get a moral quality , they get it only through being invested with it by the attitude of the onlooker .
If there is nothing evil in these things , if they get their moral complexion only from our feeling about them , why shouldn't they be greeted with a cheer ? ?
Obviously , a satisfactory answer to the third question is imperative , if the argument is to get under way at all , for if there is any possibility of doubt whether the patient's tactual sensitivity had been impaired by the occipital lesion , any findings whatsoever in regard to the first question become completely ambiguous and fail altogether , of course , as evidence to establish the desired conclusion .
Thinking the evidence insufficient to get a conviction , he later released him .
They were reluctant to appoint sheriffs to protect the property , thus running the risk of creating disturbances such as that on the Vermejo , and yet the cowboys protested that they got no salary for arresting cattle thieves and running the risk of being shot .
In November 1900 surveying was done under John Marsden on the east mountains to ascertain if it would be possible to get sufficient water and fall to operate an electric power plant .
At about the time the Marsden enterprise was getting under way , the Vail Light and Lumber Company started construction of a chair stock factory on the site of the present Bennington Co-operative Creamery , intending to use its surplus power for generating electricity .
New , indeed , is Luther's perception , but not modern , as anyone knows who has ever tried to make intelligible to modern students what Luther was getting at .
But anybody who promises a substantial volume of business can get a railroad to run a short spur to his plant these days , and many businesses can live without the railroad .
Bankers who had been reluctant to lend without better security than the house itself got that security from the U. S. government ; ;
Nothing could be seen from the floor , but by moving around the gallery one could get glimpses ; ;
That is , they used opaque color throughout , getting solid highlights with active lime white .
This kind of reasoning and logic takes a little time to get used to .
Though he struggled with philosophy all his life , he never got much beyond the pessimism of his twenties ; ;
There are two ways of getting at a poet's development : through his dated poems , and through the revisions which he made in later editions of his work .
About dawn he got up to blow .
Neither of them got very far beyond a sort of entranced rapture at his own creativity .
The novel opens with a fugitive convict frantically trying to avoid the nemesis of being `` laid hands on '' -- a mysterious figure who looks into Pip's frightened eyes in the churchyard `` as if he were eluding the hands of the dead people , stretching up cautiously out of their graves , to get a twist upon his ankle and pull him in '' .
Jaggers' iron control over her ( `` she would remove her hands from any dish she put before him , hesitatingly , as if she dreaded his calling her back ) '' ) rests on his having once got her acquitted of a murder charge by cleverly contriving her sleeves at the trial to conceal her strength and by passing off the lacerations on the backs of her hands as the scratches of brambles rather than of human fingernails .
Dickens suggests the economic evils of such a society on the first page of his novel in the description of Pip's five little dead brothers `` who gave up trying to get a living exceedingly early in that universal struggle '' , who seemed to have `` all been born on their backs with their hands in their trousers-pockets , and had never taken them out in this state of existence '' .
and use of the foam for garment interlining is only now getting off the ground , with volume potential in the offing .
An optimal policy is one which in some sense gets the best out of the process as a whole by maximizing the value of the product .
`` I can fix him something later in the afternoon when we get home '' .
Rachel said , `` I'd better get him to bed '' .
Try to get that down '' .
Then they disappeared and Scotty got up and went into his own room and got into bed .
Then they disappeared and Scotty got up and went into his own room and got into bed .
`` I think by the end of next week he could get out in the air a little .
He's getting plenty of rest '' .
Or : `` Does he get exercise '' ? ?
`` Perhaps you should get out a little '' .
`` Have you got enough blankets '' ? ?
Remember what I said about going out to get anybody left behind ? ?
Prevot had said that the searchlights would be bounced off the clouds at 2230 hours , `` which gives us time to get settled in position '' .
Because they were new men and to be sure that they didn't get lost , Prevot had placed Warren and White in the center of the patrol as it filed out .
the distant ship isn't there until you get the focus .
Mr. Christiansen knows that a soldier will get the Distinguished Service Medal for conduct that would land him in prison for life or the electric chair as a civilian .
They caught Trig stealing liquor from the officers' mess , and he got a couple of girls in trouble .
Do you get the picture of the kind of fellow he was '' ? ?
When we got there , Trig and the Negro were quarreling over possession of a gold crucifix around the neck of a wounded Filipino .
`` The Negro got a bad slice on his chest from the knife wound '' .
He had to acquire everything he was going to get in four years .
Congress is full of politicians , and if you want to get along with them , you have to be politic .
I've got a quarter of a million Germans in my state , and those krautheads tune in on Father Werther every night , and if he tells them to go out and piss in the public square , that's what they do .
Wilson stressed the fact that clear as this was , they must have a better church , a more business-like conduct of the church organization , and an effort to get this religious center out of its rut of wild worship into a modern church organization .
He was sure that he could do better if he went to Atlanta to get the deal financed .
It was hardly possible to get any argument on the subject .
The colored people are getting employment at Kent House and other places , and they are near their places of employment .
But it had largely disappeared on account of protest by the whites and through growing resentment on the part of the Negroes as they became more educated and got better wages .
He got caught up into it and became a different person .
It was like finally getting into one's own nightmares to punish one's dreams .
he knew he should get to Cap , but he didn't know how .
That got everybody up .
A Dr. Charles Taft clambered up on the stage and got the actors to hoist him up to the box .
The veterans , idling on their benches in the Square , beneath the soldiers' monument , got to their feet when Papa approached : `` Morning , Reverend '' ! !
`` Somebody's got to be a preacher in the family .
I was the first to get my squad on the ball , and anybody thinkin it was easy is pretty damn dumb .
`` I told him '' , he said aloud They'll get the guys that done it .
They'll get the guys that done it .
Turn the bastards over to me -- to me and my boys -- no nigger ever got what would be comin to them -- reactionary bastards .
He used it very effectively when he wanted to get his squad on the ball .
`` They'll get them by God and let them bring them down here to me , just let them , God , I'll slice their balls right off .
Somebody , got to be somebody If I don't put my two cents in soon , somebody else will I know they're waitin only for one thing : for the bastards what done it to be nailed .
Maybe they already got them .
Just about to get their asses kicked into hut Seven .
How did they miss him when they got Slater ? ?
I hated the goddamn army from the first day I got in anyhow .
And his efforts to get a performance for his Gallant Muses invariably failed .
But I said I would first have to get the author's permission .
And of course the news of who the composer was did finally begin to get around among his closest friends .
`` Good heavens , Adam '' , he said , `` I thought one thing you'd have no trouble learning is when to get out of a place '' .
Abel Poupin , a tall man with sunken cheeks and deep-set eyes , got to his feet .
Beyond that misty gray of the rain , he saw the stretching hutment , low diminutive log cabins , chinked with mud , with doorways a man would have to crouch to get through , with roofs of tenting laid over boughs or boards from hardtack boxes , or fence rails , with cranky chimneys of sticks and dried mud .
He carried the wood , carried the water , did the cooking , cleaning and mending , and occasionally got a kick in the butt for his pains .
When the detective left , Andrus phoned his secretary to cancel his work and to advise the network to get a substitute director for his current project .
they had enough difficulty getting from day to day , let alone having an awful crime thrust upon them .
`` Excuse me '' , he said in Berlitz English , and got up and left them , to bathe and dress .
They had lunch at a sidewalk cafe overlooking the intersection of two broad , busy , unpicturesque streets , and coming home they got lost in the Metro ; ;
it took them over an hour to get back to the station where they should have changed , in order to take the line that went to the Place Redoute .
When they got home Harold was grateful for the stillness in the apartment , and thought how , under different circumstances , they might have stayed on here , in these old-fashioned , high-ceilinged rooms that reminded him of the Irelands' apartment in the East Eighties .
The rabbi said thoughtfully , `` I would not want my people to get in trouble with the Church '' .
When he wanted to emphasize , or get greater intensity , he added or subtracted clay .
He was crouched over his anvil in the courtyard getting his chisels into trim , when a splinter of steel flew into his eye and imbedded itself in his pupil .
`` You're gonna get caught '' , she heard Joel say to Uncle Randolph by the pump one morning .
I am getting deaf , I must admit it '' .
I thought you might get in on a morning train '' .
I got a girl in trouble and we had to get married .
I got a girl in trouble and we had to get married .
Nothing like the old days in the army , but I get by .
I told him you are on orders from the Home Army to get inside Majdanek so you can make a report to the government in exile in London '' .
I will get you inside the guard camp as a member of my crew .
I don't know if I can get you into the inner camp .
`` We get strange orders '' .
`` You get the rest when I'm safely out of Majdanek '' .
She was getting real dramatic .
It was just me and Eileen getting drunk together like we used to in the old days , and me staring at her across the table crazy to get my hands on her partly because I wanted to wring her neck because she was so ornery but mostly because she was so wonderful to touch .
It was just me and Eileen getting drunk together like we used to in the old days , and me staring at her across the table crazy to get my hands on her partly because I wanted to wring her neck because she was so ornery but mostly because she was so wonderful to touch .
Eileen got to dancing , just a little tiny dancing step to a hummed tune that you could hardly notice , and trying to pick up strange men , but each time I was ready to say to hell with it and walk out she'd pull herself together and talk so understandingly in that sweet husky voice about the good times and the happiness we'd had together and there I was back on the hook .
She got so drunk I had to take her home .
Honest I could feel the hair stand up on the back of my neck like a dog's that is going to get into a fight .
To be on the safe side I never let Eileen get out of my sight day or night .
He got no relief from drink because , though sometimes Precious would buy himself a drink if he went out with us in the evening , he'd leave it on the table untouched .
How about me trying to help her get her job back ? ?
All evening Eileen had been as demure as a little girl getting ready for her first communion .
One reason the portwatchers let Sposato take them over was to get the protection of his musclemen .
Sposato couldn't wait to get me hired .
He was to get involved in no arguments ; ;
If he wanted to know anything , he would end up asking about it point-blank , but in this guileless manner he would probably receive more truthful answers than if he tried to get them by indirection .
`` I've adjusted the gauge so that the pump cuts out before the water gets too low .
`` When Konishi gets back with the jeep , I want you to round up two or three Japanese boys .
Rector was warming to his over-all strategy by the time he got back to the residential hall .
It was rather a childish game , all in all , but everybody seemed to be getting into the spirit of the thing and he could not remember when he had enjoyed planning anything quite so much .
He was not sure what effect it would have , but that was really beside the point when you got right down to it .
It's got to stop .
-- Let's get out of here .
-- Henry said that he'd take my arm and get me right there .
Her house stood on a rise of ground , and before she got into her car she looked at the houses below .
The contributions were ahead of what she had got the previous year , and while the money , of course , was not hers , it excited her to stuff her kit with big checks .
`` I got a hundred and sixty dollars for the hepatitis fund '' , she said excitedly when he walked in .
I want to get my kit in tomorrow morning -- would you mind doing them while I cook the dinner '' ? ?
Then , getting back into bed , he thought unashamedly of Mrs. Flannagan , planning where they would next meet and what they would do .
`` She's probably getting old -- crotchety , I mean -- and we figured uh-uh , better not .
He'd not care about getting waked so he could give up some of his whisky to a slit of a kid and maybe lose one of his hiding places in the bargain .
I didn't say anything , trying to get my throat clear , but I watched him .
He's got him in the kitchen '' .
He was about to get up so I got out , slamming the door .
He was about to get up so I got out , slamming the door .
Hans got an axe .
Did you get the whisky '' ? ?
If I don't get some whisky down him he might die .
Well , get your pa and get that whisky '' .
Well , get your pa and get that whisky '' .
He don't care at all , and I don't care to get my head busted neither .
`` I'll get the spirits '' , Ma said .
I was ready to jump but when Ma said she'd get the whisky it surprised him like it surprised me , and he ran down .
`` I'll get more snow '' , I said .
There was no way of getting even .
It wasn't like getting cheated at the fair .
They were always trying so you got to expect it .
but since she didn't know we'd given it to her , there was no easy way of getting it back .
He's got to thaw slow .
Big Hans began pouring whisky in the kid's mouth but his mouth filled without any getting down his throat and in a second it was dripping from his chin .
I got hold his mouth open '' .
And she was made to fall in love with him again there in the rutted dirt driveway standing in the cold fog , mad as she was at his going away when he really didn't have to , mad at their both having got older in a life that seemed to have taken no more than a week to go by .
She did this now , comfortably aware of the mist running down the windows , of the silence outside , of the dark afternoon it was getting to be .
There was no room for company in the tiny Weaning House ( where the Albright boys always took their brides , till they could get a house and a farm of their own ) .
When they first married he had been working in the fields all day , and she would get in the car and drive to wherever he was working , to take him a fresh hot meal .
All the women got up and offered their chairs , and when they were all seated again , the guests made their inquiries and their explanations .
He got in the oil business out at Odessa and lucked into some money '' .
He's been married and got this half-grown kid .
Of course he couldn't say much , really , because of Debora , but Linda Kay could imagine what kind of woman his wife had been and what a raw deal he had got .
Bobby Joe was trying to get Linda Kay to say she would cook one if he brought it home .
Every night they all went to Mama and Papa Albright's , and sat on the open front porch , where they could get the breeze .
That night the older men got to talking about going possum-hunting on a moonlight night .
Bobby Joe and two or three of the other boys declared they had never been possum-hunting , and Uncle Bill Farnworth ( from Mama Albright's side of the family ) said he would just get up from there and take them , right then .
`` That was the fille de chambre , the one you thought couldn't get the eggs out .
`` Have you got our keys handy '' ? ?
they passed behind him and got to Alex's room unnoticed .
The two men sat for some time , savoring the pleasure of escape from peril and the relief such escape brings , before they got up and left the hotel , the doctor to go to the conference house and Alex to go to the main post office .
They've got a big vulture from Tanganika at the zoo here , with a wife for him , too , very rare birds , both of them , the only Vulturidae of their species outside Africa .
Seems like she's willing , but the male just flops around all day like the bashful boy who took Jeannie May behind the barn and then didn't know what to do , and the people at the zoo haven't got any vulture chicks to show for their trouble .
`` I guess I better get ready to go '' .
`` We've got plenty of time to think about that .
Each brass handle and hinge shone for his reward , and he knew how to get at the dust in the china flowers and how to take down the long glass drops which hung from the chandelier .
Still , he couldn't help thinking , we're all getting old , getting small ; ;
Still , he couldn't help thinking , we're all getting old , getting small ; ;
`` Winston '' , she said , `` get the basket for the breakables '' .
He had only agreed with Miss Ada about getting the valet , but he had actually suggested the photograph to Mr. Jack .
`` Tell me what to get her for Christmas '' .
A man gets old anyhow '' .
Suppose the lines in front of the movie houses were too long and we couldn't get in ? ?
We keep getting the same ones back again and again .
I'm going to become a good nurse , and I've got two baby brothers that are going to have college if I have to work at my profession until I'm an old maid to give it to them '' .
How would you feel about it if I were to ask you for a date when I get through at Hanover '' ? ?
`` There are things about me that I can't tell you now , Mary Jane '' , I said , `` but if you'll go out to dinner with me when I get out of Hanover , I'd like to tell you the whole story .
You will get to come home on long weekends from Hanover , won't you '' ? ?
`` Yes , I'll get one overnight a month '' .
No one , not even the producer , had any real hope of getting it back to Broadway .
`` Forgot to get something out of the car '' , I told him , showing him my ticket .
I went back to the agency car and got out an electric bug , one of the newest devices for electronic shadowing .
After a while , however , a person's mind gets fed up and that magnifies all of the disagreeable physical symptoms which go with that sort of an assignment .
I kept trying to get him to take my money .
`` I'll have one of the boys get it '' , he said .
You get business where the business is , not where it isn't '' .
I grinned at him , handed him a couple of dollars and said , `` By the time you get the parking charge figured up , there should be a cigar in it for you '' .
If it ever got behind me , the beep turned to a buzz .
I turned left too soon and got a signal showing that I was still behind him but he was to the right .
I could get up close to him where there was traffic but had to drop far behind when there wasn't traffic .
I got in the car , drove down to the drive-in and ordered a couple of hamburgers with everything included , a cup of coffee and the fastest service possible .
She gave a little pout and said , `` I don't get off work until eleven o'clock .
She went in to get the hamburgers , and I switched on the device again and kept the signal from Dowling's car coming in steady and clear until I saw her starting back with the hamburgers .
When I switched on the lights for her to come and get the check , I had the exact change plus a dollar tip .
It was getting light .
I'm sending you a couple of customers -- yeah -- just get them out of my hair and keep them out -- I don't give a damn what you tell them -- only don't believe a word they say -- they're out to make trouble for me and it is up to you to stop them -- I don't care how -- and one more thing -- Cate's Cafe closed at eleven like always last night and Rose and Clarence Corsi left for Quebec yesterday -- some shrine or other -- I think it was called Saint Simon's -- yeah , yesterday .
`` Stupid fools -- ain't got enough brains between the two of you '' --
Grosse quietly got a broom and started to sweep up the sugar .
He got one of the menus and brushed the spilled sugar onto it and carried it to a box on the floor behind the counter .
`` -- one word of this gets to Guardino '' --
`` You get that kid over to Rose's house '' .
`` You and Barney get her over to Rose's before it gets too light .
`` You and Barney get her over to Rose's before it gets too light .
In the tool crib she can't get away '' .
Just get her where Guardino won't see her and start asking questions '' .
`` I got one question '' .
Dave said , `` I got the message .
`` I have to get back to Jarrodsville '' , he went on .
If I'd stayed , all that I'd have got was four punctured tires and one busted head .
You must've known I'd gone to get the sheriff .
`` I don't know what you're getting into , Mike '' , he said unhappily .
We've got one other call to make before I meet Alvarez '' .
Have you got my car here '' ? ?
He went to a closet to get a light jacket , and took his hat from beside the door .
Shayne got in the left-hand lane and cut across the Boulevard divider .
I got a quick look at their faces as we went past .
They've got no official standing on this side of the Bay .
Shayne said happily , `` I've got it all worked out , Tim .
He said in a low voice , `` I've got a date with a lady , Mister .
Shayne strode out blithely , and Rourke checked his watch and sipped his drink , getting a dime ready to make the telephone call to the police .
He walked over to the right-hand door , opened it and got the reloaded automatic out of the glove compartment and put it in his hip pocket .
He got the pint of liquor out of his pocket and unscrewed the top , sprinkled the pungent stuff liberally over both men , and then tossed the open bottle in on the front seat .
Let's get inside .
`` Why the two damned fools got all excited when they saw the bottle , and knocked each other out cold '' , Shayne said good-humoredly .
He got a knee up into Roberts' belly , used both hands and heaved him clear , then scrambled to his feet .
He went to the room he had rented and got into his overcoat .
He found the key to the Jeep , got it started and warmed it up for five minutes .
He got it onto his shoulder after some work and carried it outside and down to the Jeep .
The Jeep fought its way through the low spot and got onto higher ground .
He went back and got the flashlight , returned to the tunnel and carried the suitcase to the edge of the pit he had found earlier .
He could feel himself falling in with it and being unable to get out .
It was a relief to get rid of the weight .
He was shaking with tension and it took him a couple of minutes to get his breath and settle down .
Then he got on his knees and rolled Roberts' body toward the edge .
He got to his feet and threw the flashlight beam into the pit .
He replaced the flashlight where it had been stowed , got into his own car and backed it out of the garage .
If there was such a person , I'm afraid she got away with it .
She's the one who decides which wedding is to get the lead space in the Sunday paper and all that '' .
It took a couple of minutes to run through her various businesses and get down to the one he wanted .
Before we built the new jail , we used to keep prisoners in here overnight sometimes when the old jail got too crowded .
When things got a little out of hand , they very rapidly got a lot out of hand -- it seemed to be a general rule .
When things got a little out of hand , they very rapidly got a lot out of hand -- it seemed to be a general rule .
I go over to Castro and get fixed up there .
And Mr. Skyros didn't like Angie , but what with Prettyman and three of his boys inside , and not likely to come out -- And Angie such a valuable salesman , Prettyman said -- All the nuisance and danger of getting in touch with practically a whole new bunch of boys -- Why did everything have to happen at once ? ?
`` Mr. Skyros too smart a fellow want to get rid of me '' , he said .
I tell you , I know how it is with you , my friend , I sympathize , and I'll make it a special point -- a special favor -- get in touch , and get some stuff just for you .
I tell you , I know how it is with you , my friend , I sympathize , and I'll make it a special point -- a special favor -- get in touch , and get some stuff just for you .
You see , you got to remember , we all got schedules , like any business ! !
You see , you got to remember , we all got schedules , like any business ! !
About nine o'clock , I call and see if you got any .
Never mind how much I cut it , how much I get '' , and he smiled his sleepy smile again .
This is awkward for everybody , isn't it , we all got to put up with inconvenience sometimes .
He got out of there in a hurry , brushing past another man in the door , mopping his brow .
He rather wished he had never got into the business , and still -- scarcely to be resisted , a nice little profit with not much work involved , easy money
Usually she marked the few who did thank you , you didn't get that kind much in a place like this : and she played a little game with herself , seeing how downright rude she could act to the others , before they'd take offense , threaten to call the manager .
She'd be smart about it , get him to give it to her in little bills so's nobody would suspect -- maybe couldn't get it until Monday account of that , the banks -- But that wasn't really long to wait .
She'd be smart about it , get him to give it to her in little bills so's nobody would suspect -- maybe couldn't get it until Monday account of that , the banks -- But that wasn't really long to wait .
Then on Monday morning -- or it might have to be Tuesday -- get up and leave just the usual time , and last thing , put the money in an envelope under the old woman's purse there in the drawer .
She wouldn't be going to get that for an hour or so after Katya had left , go do the daily shopping .
To be Katharine Ross , and work in a nicer shop somewhere , at a little more money so she could have prettier clothes , and learn ladies' manners and all like that , and get to know different people than up to now , not just the ones like her here , with foreign-sounding names , the ones went to the same church and -- Different place , different job , different people , she'd be all different too .
After he'd got out fresh liver for Bast , he paused to look at her crouched daintily over her dish .
`` I've got to get busy .
`` I've got to get busy .
`` We've got to eat '' , Sarah said , curtly , because a chill crawled over her again .
George said , `` First thing I do when I get to Vicksburg again , is get me a Yankee '' --
George said , `` First thing I do when I get to Vicksburg again , is get me a Yankee '' --
I mean I've got to -- to see to the kitchen .
I'm telling you , if these corpses ever knew the trouble they put us to , they'd think twice before letting themselves get knocked off '' .
While they were away Blanche came into the office every morning , running things as she had always run them for Stanley , going through the week in a dazed stupor , getting things done automatically , out of habit .
What I'm getting at is that we were fully prepared for Felix's being an odd one .
You may think we didn't need Nancy and Jean , but you always get what you can when you can , and we had no guarantee that a fingerprint record on them couldn't be useful before we were through with this case .
She's got plenty of guts , Mr. Paxton .
It's just barely possible with this crowd that the kidnapper wasn't able to get a table .
`` I got a bone to pick with you , Mr. Paxton .
What do you expect to get tonight , anyway ? ?
He had gotten stuck with a job too big for his imagination ; ;
We got a bunch of sippers out there tonight .
`` I got it , Andy .
God knows how , but I got it .
His son watched until he got as far as the hall , almost out of sight , then hurried after .
He got his hat out of the closet .
He passed the receptionist in the outer office , muttering , `` I've got to go out for a little while '' .
He got into the car .
She wanted him to get into trouble .
She was going to keep on scheming , poking , prodding , suggesting , and dictating until the cops got up enough interest in him to go back to their old neighborhood and ask questions .
Suppose the cops somehow got hold of that ? ?
He drove into the paved space before the garage and got out , slamming the car door .
got Mullins .
`` Send out a pickup on Mrs. Mason and the boy when you've got enough to go on '' , Bill said .
Mrs. Meeker hadn't got around to taking care of that .
`` Leigh , get a grip on yourself .
I did get you on the platform this morning '' .
Now will you get him '' ? ?
You get back to the captain and tell him this : Somebody's going to take a shot at the prime minister , and Mahzeer is in on the plot .
If you want to spend another day in the State Department -- another day -- you get in there and tell that captain what I told you '' .
`` Where'd your friend Hoag get his information '' ? ?
Because I'm looking for the son of a bitch that killed that old man , and I'm going to get him .
That's not getting all the juice out of the orange , now is it '' ? ?
I would have been negligent and a goddam lousy cop to boot , if I'd sat around this station all night when somebody got away with murder in my district .
She had grown up with young Jenkins , and he had heard that they had been at the point of getting married at least twice .
`` I've been after her for years '' , Needham said , `` but I've never been able to get anywhere until the last few days '' .
We're going to get married .
He wondered whether Needham was going to swear off gambling and get a steady job or whether he was counting on the income from Betty's estate to subsidize him .
`` I'll get my references in order '' , Needham said , and though he spoke with a smile , Casey somehow got the idea that he was not particularly amused .
`` I'll get my references in order '' , Needham said , and though he spoke with a smile , Casey somehow got the idea that he was not particularly amused .
As he went out he told Freddie the dinner was perfect , and when he got his hat and coat from Nancy Parks and put a fifty-cent piece in the slot , he told her to be sure that it went toward her dowry .
For he remembered too well how he had brought back the loaded drinks to Burton and then returned to the kitchen to get weaker drinks for himself .
He tried to tell himself that maybe Burton had sobered up enough to get some sense .
`` I wouldn't even want it to get around '' .
His nerves were getting a little ragged and his impatience put an edge in his voice .
If that picture gets around and I find out you had anything to do with it , I'm going to send a couple of my boys around to see you '' .
Each time he got the same answer and in the end he gave up .
And anyway Burton was not the kind of guy who would be likely to get in trouble even when he was drunk .
`` I'll get some ointment '' .
Never had no trouble with him before , thought he was a hard worker , hustling around to get a full week's work .
I got there at 9:47 A.M. , found her strangled .
Still , I wanted to get this over with , had a lot of paper work waiting in my own office .
`` We'll get him soon , see what he says '' , Chief Moore cut in .
Moore said , `` Come on , Jed , I have to get to my men '' .
On my way out I told her , `` If you should eh just happen to see your husband , get him to give himself up .
He'll get a fair trial .
Hiding out like this won't get him anything , except more trouble , or a bullet '' .
I told Moore I was going to eat , get some forms filled out by Doc Abel .
I got into the front seat .
Take the same train Diana Beauclerk took and get there at the same time .
So did the firm of lawyers who had got her the divorce , Kimball and Stacy .
She was in good health and spirits , but still determined to get the money from Forbes .
Either I get the story -- or I get the suite '' .
Either I get the story -- or I get the suite '' .
He was in a hurry to get out of the room .
The silence was getting on Alec's nerves .
In good time I shall get to the distressing actuality , to Red McIver and Handley Walker , to murder and sudden death .
You must know what gets into people , even such as Red and Handley , before you can tell what comes out of them .
And isn't it true that you get a deeper perception about a man and his motives when you know what it is he knows ? ?
Yes , gentlemen , I am getting to the point , to my point .
Now , Dogtown is one of those places that creeps into the marrow as worms get into old wood , under the veneer .
Please get that in your reports .
And it was because of an old Norberg inheritance that I got to understand them all so well .
But you've got to know both .
He wondered how he got tied up with this stranger .
When he finally got the coughing under control , he realized that Pete ( all he gave was his first name ) was still waiting for an answer -- he didn't even seem to wink as he continued to stare .
I might have got hit by that truck if it wasn't for you .
`` All right '' , he conceded finally , `` if you must know , I don't get along with the landlord .
`` Then she'd get half of everything I have .
I'll pull the boards back and then get us a light .
`` Listen , I got a buddy I travel with , real nice guy named Larry .
`` He'll bring a bottle too , and I'll get another one or maybe two while I'm out .
`` But we got to go back to Fifth and get another bottle or two .
`` But we got to go back to Fifth and get another bottle or two .
I bought another pint of sherry and when we got back Pops let us in in the dark , put back the blanket and then lighted the candle again .
if we'd really been trying to get him dead drunk we'd have had to go out for more wine .
Here's the picture we want to leave for the fuzz -- whenever the body gets found .
We've got to assume they'll decide he was murdered and we've got to keep the picture consistent .
We've got to assume they'll decide he was murdered and we've got to keep the picture consistent .
Thinking like that can get you into a padded pad .
Charlie would get there early because he had the key .
I've got a little stashed for a rainy day , and I guess this is rainy enough .
Mike do you ever get homesick ? ?
Some of them were warts until they got promoted .
`` You mean this punk can brush me aside and I've got to hold still for it '' ? ?
if Mike had had a finger in it , he had gotten away with it -- and what happened to supreme bishops worried Jubal not at all as long as he wasn't bothered .
He was the dormitory gapt when I went to college and thought I was getting away from him .
He is the one responsible for my getting such low M. R.'s .
If I get a low M. R. , I do so because I want it that way or my dark self does .
Here the peoples spoke the tongue of Iceland because that island had gotten the jump on the Hawaiian-Americans who were busy resettling North America and the western half of South America after the Apocalyptic War .
Moreover , even getting this across would be difficult .
He had already become used to Hesperus' snapping back answers to questions almost before Jack could get them asked .
and it was getting bigger rapidly .
And there would be no chance of signaling them -- without the Nernst generator Jack could not send a call powerful enough to get through all the static , and by the time he could rebuild his fusion power the skiff would be gone .
First I've got to intercept my brothers before they get any deeper into trouble .
First I've got to intercept my brothers before they get any deeper into trouble .
`` I get no readings from them at all .
`` I heard a story once about a rookie who got excited when the captain stepped outside and he couldn't get an encephalographic reading on him .
`` I heard a story once about a rookie who got excited when the captain stepped outside and he couldn't get an encephalographic reading on him .
`` I think we'd better let it lay until we get a clearer picture of the ecological setup around here .
There was no reason to leave the comfortable quarters inside the ship , except that , faced with a possibility of sleeping on solid ground , they simply had to get out .
Where the hell did he get off threatening to report any laxness on their part to the captain ? ?
It took him a few seconds to put his thoughts in order , and then he got up from the bunk where he had been resting , sleeplessly .
`` Where do you get off , Ryan '' ? ?
This has got to be some kind of local phenomenon .
Now all the bodies are missing , like they got up and walked away '' .
One such group got all incensed over shelled `` children '' when Helva was just turning fourteen .
You've got the lovelies on the brain .
Mercer did not know what an `` Earth-week '' was , since he had not been a well-read man before his conviction , but he got nothing more from the half-man at that time .
Mercer got the blissful needle .
Now I can only write , and that only when I get out of pain .
Sometimes he woke up in the middle of the night thinking of Ann , and then could not get back to sleep .
She lay there , making no effort to get back on her feet .
`` Then we're lucky we got here .
He said , `` I've got some supper ready '' .
How did we get here '' ? ?
She got to her feet , staggered , and almost fell .
She helped him with the dishes , then he brought more water in from the spring before it got dark .
`` I mean , we don't have any way to get there and we can't expect you to quit work just to take us to town '' .
`` I get up early .
I just can't take any chances on getting her pregnant , and if we were sleeping together ''
`` We got fired '' , Jones said .
He got into a fight with Tom English , your brother's son .
You get ready ''
There's only one way they can get out now and that's through the Gap -- if we ride hard we can take them '' .
First , we've got to get out of here '' .
First , we've got to get out of here '' .
There's bound to be someone on guard , but the hat might fool them long enough for me to get close '' .
Mike kept walking and got within arm's reach before the man became suspicious and straightened from his lax slouch .
`` There's no chance now of all of us getting away .
The rest of us can fort up in the house and hang on until you get back .
Its force spun him around , but he recovered and got into stride again .
`` Old Knife's got the largest war party ever seen on the river '' , he said calmly .
That's why the British never got the tribes to fight for the King .
Once we get over the mountains others will come along .
Before we get through he'll have the Blackfeet hankerin' for our hair and our goods .
`` Oso '' , Montero called `` I'll get Gray Eyes '' .
Reverend Jason got one , the Canadians the others .
She showed her surprise by tightening the reins and moving the gelding around so that she could get a better look at his face .
He meant to say more , but he never got the chance .
He got up slowly , and she was already on her feet , and he stood facing her .
If you've got any ideas '' .
You've got no business up here '' .
You've got blood on your cheek .
It must have got there when you fell against me '' .
I don't know what makes you think you can get away with this kind of business , and I don't care about that , either .
She finally regained her balance and got up in the saddle .
Well , the grass was there , though in some places the ground was too steep for a cow to get to it .
And he had a feeling -- thanks to the girl -- that things would get worse before they got better .
And he had a feeling -- thanks to the girl -- that things would get worse before they got better .
I would turn away from my writing in the hope of getting a good look at them but I never quite succeeded .
But he came toward me sedately enough , showed me around the counter , offered me a seat inside his office , then walked to a file cabinet and got out my application .
`` Let's get one thing straight , you and me .
The only reason we brought you was to get Miller out .
`` I've got to have help '' .
`` I got no place to go '' .
He said now , `` I've got the perfect headquarters set up .
`` The road's washed badly '' , said Dill , `` but there's a trail you can get over with a horse .
Let's go get the boy '' .
I've got to get the boy .
I've got to get the boy .
She had to get away from here before this demoniac possession swallowed up the liquid of her eyes and sank into the fibers of her brain , depriving her of reason and sight .
I'm well aware that you've got a pedigree as long as my leg , and that I don't amount to anything .
I've got something to say to you , and by God you're going to listen .
He opened the door and got out .
That's really all he's got , all he is .
`` I feel like getting back to town , that's what I feel like ! !
`` Might get there faster walkin' '' , Lord drawled , `` seein' as how I got a busted front spring .
`` Might get there faster walkin' '' , Lord drawled , `` seein' as how I got a busted front spring .
I figger it's probl'y a sixty-five-mile walk , and I c'n maybe get this spring patched up in a couple of hours '' .
`` Not a danged thing but rattlesnakes , so I reckon I'll get the boss rattler to help me '' .
sufficiently , at least , to get them back into town .
Figger we got to be plumb careful with any of you Highlands big shots '' .
`` I know you've got a grudge against me , and maybe I can't blame you .
So you get rid of that pistol right now , Mis-ter McBride .
`` I'll get around to it a little later '' , he mumbled desperately .
They got tin cups of coffee from the big pot on the coosie's fire , rolled and lighted brown-paper cigarettes , lounged about .
`` Pat , get out of that creek ! !
Elena , you'll get mud all over your dress '' ! !
I've got to take Danny away from Clayton before I lose him altogether .
Hogan got down from the saddle and had a look inside .
`` Not there '' , he said , getting back onto his horse .
`` Don't get yourself killed for something that doesn't concern you '' .
For men who had left cattle alone after getting their first notices had received no second .
He never got that chance .
Rumors of the offer Tom Horn had made at the Stockgrowers' Association meeting had leaked out by then , and as a grand jury investigation of the murder got underway , the prosecuting attorney , a Colonel Baird , ordered that the tall stock detective be summoned for questioning .
He heaved the dead man onto the buckboard , yelled and lashed at the team and got out of there fast .
`` And I sort o' got a corner on the market '' .
`` I don't know , Mr. Brenner '' , he said haltingly , beginning to get an inkling of Brenner's plans .
Curt wanted to get Jess alone , without interference from anyone , even as spineless a person as the store owner .
`` We ain't got nothing to talk about .
He had to make Jess talk , and he had to do it before Stacey Black got curious and came to investigate .
Blood gushed from his nose , and he backed off as rapidly as he could , stumbling over his own feet in his frantic haste to get away from Curt's fists .
Jess painfully got to his feet as someone rattled the door .
Black would have little trouble getting out , but it might delay him a few minutes .
`` Sally '' , admonished her mother , `` you've got all evening to visit with Dan .
`` Got a lot to tend to , but I'll get back quick as I can '' , he assured her .
If I hadn't got Nate stopped when I did , my duds'd all be shot plumb to hell ! !
Rod shifted his eager eyes from the milling group out in the circle long enough to reply , `` I ain't much of a hand for Dare-Base and Farmer-in-the-Dell , but I'd sure like to get in on the handhold and wrestles '' .
He's got the tightest running gear in the train now .
Besides , 'tain't no more'n right for me to follow with my black oxen , so's I can unhook and pull up fast if either of you get in a pinch '' .
`` He's there '' , he got out tersely , curbing his rising excitement .
Cobb got it .
`` Where else would he get it ? ?
Count what you've got there , Cobb .
`` We know Penny spent some -- and Carmer must have dropped a few dollars getting that load on '' .
`` Shall we get out of here '' ? ?
Whoever was out there hiding in the brushy cover was besieging the Antler house and , having spotted his approach , was determined to drive him off before he could get into the fight .
Let's get out of here '' ! !
Fleischman with eight was to patrol the Leyte Gulf area , with his main task to get any kamikaze before they got to the ships .
Fleischman with eight was to patrol the Leyte Gulf area , with his main task to get any kamikaze before they got to the ships .
`` I've got her as neat as I can '' , Donovan said , as he dropped the straps of the Seton harness over Greg's shoulders .
Visibility continued to be limited , and Greg was never able to get above a thousand feet .
One of Greg's bombs hung up , and he was miles from the target before he could get rid of it .
There was , of course , no way for the other planes to get by them .
Mrs. Roebuck thought Johnson was a `` sweet bawh t'lah lahk thet '' , but her Herman was getting to be a man , there was no getting around it .
Mrs. Roebuck thought Johnson was a `` sweet bawh t'lah lahk thet '' , but her Herman was getting to be a man , there was no getting around it .
Just as I got to my knees , there was again the sound of the fence stretching , and I had time only to start taking my kneeling posture seriously .
I got a coin between my thumb and forefinger , leaned my elbows in a very natural and casual manner on top of the truck cab and flipped my little missile .
Looking back I saw a gray-haired man getting out of his halted car and trying to read our license number .
Plus flawless skin , smooth brow and cheeks , lips that looked as if you could get a shock from them .
`` You got away , didn't you '' ? ?
I swam like mad , got out of the pool , grabbed my robe , and ran to the car .
I didn't get a good look at him at all , his back was to me , and I was so scared It was just somebody in a man's suit .
What Joyce wanted me to do was go to Thor's house and `` do whatever detectives do '' , and get her clothes -- and handbag containing her identification .
But if Joyce got involved in murder or salacious scandal , the role would probably go to the sponsor's wife , Mrs. Oatnut Grits .
There I got my Colt Special and shoulder harness , slipped my coat on , and went back into the front room .
I showed her the shower and tub , and she said , smiling , `` If you really don't mind , I think I'll get clean in the shower , then soak for a few minutes in your tub .
Bryn Mawr Drive is only two or three miles from the Spartan , and it took me less than five minutes to get there .
`` According to Rose , he arrived here a couple minutes before nine and spotted Thor in the water , got a hooked pole from the pool-equipment locker and started hauling him out .
It was as if they could hardly wait to get into their costumes , cover their faces with masks and go adventuring .
I dismissed these feelings as wishful thinking but I could not get it out of my head that we had a strong physical attraction for one another and we both feared to dwell on it because of our relationship .
I heard subsequently that my Uncle and Aunt had dinner in a nearby restaurant in the French Quarter after which he went home to get into his costume to keep the date .
You get a good , loyal husband -- smack ! !
A card to Walter would get him an introduction to this Meredith , and that might be good for something .
So if all these beers was to get me in bed , man , you just spent a lot of money '' .
And when you get off this job tonight , well , you can gimme something to eat '' .
Packing a small suitcase , informing her husband whom she found in Harry's Bar that she was taking a train to Germany to get away for a while , patting his arm , refusing a drink , getting on the train -- all this had only taken her two hours .
Packing a small suitcase , informing her husband whom she found in Harry's Bar that she was taking a train to Germany to get away for a while , patting his arm , refusing a drink , getting on the train -- all this had only taken her two hours .
Mary Jane got up , quietly , and walked away .
He flexed his muscles for several minutes , got into the tub , and then grew self-conscious of splashing as he washed .
`` We can get it if we dig '' , he said patiently .
He got a small fire started and put on bacon and coffee .
He said hesitantly , `` Hettie , I don't figure your things got wet too much .
If you want to get them aired ''
Brassnose yelled : `` Come on , Sommers , Max step on it , we got a chance now .
`` Let's get away fast '' , said Brassnose , shaking water from his mop of bleached hair .
`` I guess he spent the morning getting himself all organized , then headed for home .
`` Nope , just you , all the time -- sometimes I think it's the only way I'll ever get a decent partner '' .
Every so often the diminishing sound of a car came under the trailer as it slowed down for the wreck then speeded up again as it got clear .
She's got guts , thought Keith .
She's got more guts than any other woman in the world .
Asked Keith , his voice getting harsher in spite of himself , as he struggled to control his growing anger .
When they got to Shillong , in Assam , he was happy .
I don't get it why this time I should pull such a stupid trick '' .
`` Well , I get it '' , Artie said , still on the ladder .
`` You are a big muscle-bound ape and you got this idea about setting a record .
And you also got this little spark in your bird-brain that tells you to turn around before you drown yourself .
`` You think I got you and Artie and Herr Schaffner all the way out here just for the boat ride ? ?
Old Commodore Forsythe , who had once lost a fifty-dollar bet on whether he could get both motors started and turn on the running lights without accidentally turning on something else first .
This will help him to get out of his little tackle shop .
`` Blessed Saint Nicholas , I thank thee for getting me out of that mess and sending me up instead of down when I was bewildered .
Let me set the record this time , and let me get back OK , so the German will give me the exclusive .
When he got closer to the tree , Matsuo noted the wild look on his face .
Awkwardly with one hand Matsuo got the cap back on the water bottle .
`` And what makes you think you're going to get it , pretty boy '' ? ?
Most of the time I get what I ask for '' .
`` Yes , George , but I ain't got poor old Pat's body yet .
`` I'm gonna drop these into Blue Throat's lap '' , he announced , `` and I'd like every gun to be firing into that barn while I get near enough to toss 'em through the window '' .
It was snowing hard when they got there and they saw no horses outside .
`` Just get out of here without it looking as though we're in a hurry .
When he awoke in the mornings , she was in his mind and he could hardly wait to get to school to be near her in the flesh .
`` I'll get her yet '' , he muttered to himself .
`` I've got to get her '' .
`` I've got to get her '' .
Outside it was already hot at 7:30 A.M. , and it was getting hot in the kitchen .
And if you get sick , ask the teacher to let you come home early .
`` I got Margaret Rider in one of them old box cars down there by the quarry '' .
`` Hell , I jist got on top of -- ''
`` No , I mean how'd you get her to do it '' ? ?
If you'd get out of your back yard once in a while you might even get her your ownself '' .
If you'd get out of your back yard once in a while you might even get her your ownself '' .
Miss Langford , in a fresh white dress and low-heeled white sandals , without socks , was out there with them , trying to get them inside .
While she was struggling to get her skirt down and get on her feet again , Jack ran over , offered her his hand and said , `` Gosh , I'm sorry , Miss Langford .
While she was struggling to get her skirt down and get on her feet again , Jack ran over , offered her his hand and said , `` Gosh , I'm sorry , Miss Langford .
`` That's all right '' , she said , tossing her head back to get the hair out of her eyes .
When her hand touched his , fire went through Jack and he felt weak , but he managed somehow to get her on her feet .
`` But I've got to take a chance on it '' , he told himself desperately .
Moreover , runaway slaves frequently got into serious trouble in New Orleans' dives .
Since then , and since the pure grain had gotten him divorced from every decent -- and even indecent -- group from Greenwich Village to the Embarcadero , he had become a sucker-rolling freight-jumper .
Slug the kid , grab his dough -- at least enough to get to Philadelphia -- and then have a rockin' ball with the doll .
Why , we got dinner right here .
He didn't want us to get married .
`` Why didn't he want you to get hitched '' ? ?
What they got , you get .
What they got , you get .
`` It's not for making pretty speeches about Dante those actresses get paid so good '' .
`` She's in a mood '' , he thought `` There's not a month she doesn't get herself in a mood '' .
Maggie couldn't seem to get her strength back or catch up with herself with all she had to do : there was the big basket of clothes to be coaxed through the rackety old washer and lugged out and lugged back ; ;
`` Evadna Mae Evans got all her baby clothes from Best's Liliputian Bazaar in New York , and I'm sick and tired of hearing about Evadna Mae Evans '' .
`` Don't worry , I can get plenty more '' , Eugenia said , wondering where in the world she could .
The East was popularly supposed to have got the country into war and into depression , dragging the west along ; ;
Grandma said it was just like the early mining camp days , and it was the way people ought to live , only she was getting too old to take the pleasure from it that she used to .
They begged Grandma to let them put a bed in the kitchen for her , but Grandma said she was getting too old to sleep in strange beds and be seen with her teeth out , and that she hoped to die in privacy like a Christian and if the Lord willed it to be of pneumonia than it would have to be that way .
Eugenia suspected her of deliberately overturning the heater because she was getting tired of dragging it back and forth and still wanted her own way , but Hope said if Grandma wouldn't have the heater nobody would have it , so Grandma had to give in .
Zion stayed to get my pin , but it'll be a cold day in June when I go back '' .
`` I'll decide that when I get there .
Tillie was a fine midwife and could get here quick , he suggested .
Jenny's aversion to having Dr. Dunne , a former admirer , seemed silly to him , but he would humor her , get anybody she wanted , the best never being too good for her .
But when Miss Jen went over right away to return the call , Miss Kiz couldn't have been very cordial , for she'd come back before she hardly had time to get there .
Though he was glad she got on well with his young folks , she ought to be welcome at the finest house in the land , too .
He didn't tell Miss Jen , but she must have got word from the cook or nurse , who of course knew those Quinzaine nigs , and she really took a fit .
`` A swell party , send an invite to ever'body but them -- those folks you met at the Galt House , the ones I've got to know in this new Jockey Club affair , the whole dang neighborhood .
I'll see word gets round '' .
Her hesitation was only momentary and she hoped he didn't notice it , as she settled herself , asked quickly how Miss Jenny and the babies were getting on .
`` Them's the purtiest babes you ever did see , but Miss Jen gets mighty lonesome .
`` He's got this idea about drying out ''
I've got a day's work to do .
She had changed into a cocktail dress , and the whole evening should have been before her , but already she was beginning to get a tight feeling at the back of her neck .
she got out of the coffee shop before the incident could be repeated .
Actually , all a man in uniform has to do is to get by .
He may not rise to the heights , but he can get by , and eventually be retired .
`` I've got to run an errand on the way .
That she was out for a touch was certain , but when did she get to the pitch ? ?
`` How did you get by the desk '' ? ?
Owen was aware he was getting overexcited but he couldn't help himself .
those bibles and prayer books make a lot of money for publishing houses , but they don't get top personnel .
`` You know '' , he said , getting a grip on himself , `` I think you're going to have to excuse me .
I figure if I can get any kind of publicity campaign going , I'll land him on TV -- you know , one of those favorite horses for some Western hero .
She looked well-fed and prosperous , but he didn't get the impression he was being propositioned the way he'd been hoping .
We'll get it in a hurry and get it out '' .
We'll get it in a hurry and get it out '' .
McKinley was overheard to say that he would like to get the knife into Spencer's possession and that '' --
So you sit in the car and listen to the air run out and listen to the rain and see the mud in front of the headlights , waiting for you , for your new spectator pumps , waiting for you to squat by yourself out there in your tight skirt , crying and afraid and trying to get that damned son-of-a-bitch tire off , because that is being an old maid too , if you happen to drive a car , it is changing the tire yourself in the night , and in the mud and the rain , hating to get out in it but afraid to stay and afraid to try to walk out for help .
So you sit in the car and listen to the air run out and listen to the rain and see the mud in front of the headlights , waiting for you , for your new spectator pumps , waiting for you to squat by yourself out there in your tight skirt , crying and afraid and trying to get that damned son-of-a-bitch tire off , because that is being an old maid too , if you happen to drive a car , it is changing the tire yourself in the night , and in the mud and the rain , hating to get out in it but afraid to stay and afraid to try to walk out for help .
You feel where he is and what he sees , and at night you feel when he is asleep or with the other woman , the one that never could love him the way you do , the one who got him because she didn't particularly give a damn whether she got him or didn't .
You feel where he is and what he sees , and at night you feel when he is asleep or with the other woman , the one that never could love him the way you do , the one who got him because she didn't particularly give a damn whether she got him or didn't .
And you know you will always wonder all of your life whether it was because you wanted him so bad that you didn't get him , and you can feel nearly sorry enough to cry when you think of that other guy , the chump who begged you to marry him , the one with the plastered hair and the car he couldn't afford and the too-shiny shoes .
that he must have since he was there like the radio for you to turn on or snap off when you got tired of him , that other guy .
And you wonder if that is why the little man lost his job and his car and stayed drunk about a year before he straightened out and moved to St. Louis , where he got to be a big unhappy success .
The two little bangs meant that he was getting impatient to have a crowd of customers waited on and that if he had to he would jerk open the door and drag out , by the opposite door handle which she would be clutching , whichever-the-hell clerk it was who thought she could waste so much store time on the pot .
the book was a fine historical novel about Edward 3 , , and I did a week of research to get the details just right : the fifteenth-century armor , furnishings , clothes .
I even ferreted out the materials from which shields were made -- linden wood covered with leather -- so I'd get the light reflections accurate .
and in the third place , it would cost a fortune to reproduce in the first place -- you've got six colors there including gold '' .
he would look right through you while you were talking to him , and if you said , `` For Christ's sake , Donald , you've got Prussian blue all over your shirt '' , he would smile , and nod , and an hour later the paint would be all over his pants as well .
I kept saying , `` If I could just build up a reputation for myself , make some real money , get to be well known as an illustrator -- like Peter Askington , for instance -- then I could take some time off and paint '' .
What we need is to get back to the group , to learning and apprenticeship , to the cafe and the school '' .
The upshot of the evening was that I got the address of Pendleton's studio -- or rather , of the studio in which he gave his classes , for he didn't work there himself -- and joined the life class , which met every Tuesday and Thursday from ten to twelve in the morning .
The cleansing tissues she had been using had been falling on the floor , and he got up and picked up one , then another , hoping she would notice what he was doing .
Would he have to clean up after her every day , clean the kitchen , the bathroom , and get down on his knees and scrub the kitchen floor , then hang up her dresses , pick up her stockings , make the bed while she lay around ? ?
Can't you get another pair '' ? ?
`` I'll get an elegant pair of thin-soled Italian shoes tomorrow , Carla '' .
That day they loafed around , just getting the feel of the city .
When they got home at midnight she was tired out .
He wondered Probably because it was a place where she might get a feeling of certainty and security .
Just the same , he thought , pondering over it , it would be a good thing for a girl like Carla if she got up and went to church .
A half hour later he got her up to go out for breakfast so the Ferraros , hearing them hurrying down the stairs , would think they were going to a late mass .
The old woman had a nephew from North Italy , a poor boy from a lumber mill who had got tired of the seasonal unemployment , and who had migrated to Canada to work on the railway .
Indeed he did , Sam said solemnly , trying to get Carla's eye .
Go back where you can bring no harm , or I will go and get the old man from his bed so he can see your shame '' ! !
A plane up in the sky , above the clouds , and this freakish wreck of a man desperately trying to get away .
`` I'll call your mother as soon as I get home .
He could hardly believe he was getting in .
I'll get it hauled away .
He's got all the facts .
`` You've got to admit she was smart to scare up this fine government job over there -- she'll get a home for herself and Cathy in no time .
`` You've got to admit she was smart to scare up this fine government job over there -- she'll get a home for herself and Cathy in no time .
And when you get back from Grandma's , Cathy will be here to play with you .
`` You mean once Myra gets to Paris '' ? ?
She's not going to get away with it .
For eleven days they'd done the same thing , leaving the cottage quietly before breakfast , before Esperanza Beach got jammed with tourists and beach balls and show-offy lifeguards .
While I'm gone you get brown and fat as a pig , hear ? ?
When you get back I'll probly be swimming better than Victoria .
`` She's got a nerve '' .
I've got this leg brace '' .
Or say a waiter brings you a bowl of soup with a dead fly in it -- all you got to do is bannnnnng , stooooomp your cane on the floor .
He's got a long beard and picks his teeth with a fork .
Japan , she said , smelled pugh because people let dead fish lie on the beaches till the fish got hard as rocks ; ;
they danced on the sand till your blood got hot and danced with them .
`` You can always tell a real gentleman -- they got a certain je ne say quok '' .
`` Children , we'll have to get organized .
The first time the nurse took him out of the lung , she said if he got frightened , she'd put him back for a second .
It got worse instead of better .
She managed a missionary drive for the church once and got the books so confused that old Mr. Webber , the eldest elder , who'd never donated more than five dollars to anything , had to cough up five hundred dollars to avoid a scandal in what Edythe called `` the bosoms of the church '' .
But he got ahead in business : on leave from his job to an important Washington assignment during the war ; ;
`` Don't think Linda couldn't have got John back any time , if she'd tried '' , Mousie Gordon , who had been Mousie Chandler , said between bites of a chicken sandwich at a luncheon table at Le Mont .
Years of watching while Poor John struggled without the help and understanding of the kind of wife a man needed to get ahead .
Bobbie said something about damned Pittsburghers sticking together , and Linda got angry at him .
They had their first real fight , and Bobbie went off to get drunk .
With that wife of his , I think he feels every chance he gets is his big chance .
The job at Funk wasn't particularly better , but it got him away from being subordinate to John and assured him steady advancement , since Funk was owned to a large degree by various branches of Linda's family .
I could get along without that three dollars .
Old Mr. Thom is already down on Wally , and we simply can't afford to get Ken mad at us '' --
`` I have to get up early for church tomorrow '' , she went on .
I told Nadine everything was fine , and that I'd be getting on home .
`` Wally's drunk -- I'll get him out of here as soon as I possibly can , but I don't want Shirley to see him like this .
`` Pack -- and get out '' ! !
`` He told Ken to his face that he doesn't have what it takes to get a woman ! !
We're ruined and he's going to get out if I have to throw him down the stairs '' --
`` Well then , I'll get out '' -- But she looked uncertain .
I got her into bed , and sat with her until she had sobbed herself out .
I -- got fired yesterday for not attending to business '' --
Old Mr. Thom himself had stopped at the service station for a grease job , Wally confessed , and couldn't get one because there were cars on the pits waiting to be repaired .
Mr. Thom had gotten Wally on the phone , and fired him .
`` But Ken got coy and wouldn't make any promises .
But I couldn't help thinking that Nadine and Wally were getting just what they deserved .
But it would only be for a couple of weeks -- until they get straightened out '' .
Then Wally got sick .
His luck had failed him , and it was easier to crawl off into bed than to get out and fight the world .
Nadine's constant nagging had finally gotten Wally out of bed .
`` You can get something , '' Nadine would snap .
`` You can get a job working in a grocery store , if nothing else '' .
`` The high school kids have got everything sewed up '' , he said , a whine in his voice .
Part of it was the weather , so foggy it would take me twice as long to get to the hospital .
Her first class wasn't until ten , but she always got up to have breakfast with me .
If she and Pete were really getting serious , I'd have to do some hard thinking .
The boys were already waiting in the corridor outside my office when I got to Fairview .
We didn't get many at Fairview and they were never pretty sights .
`` I've got the results on the Bancroft smear test '' , he said .
We'll do a D. and C. and get her permission for a hysterectomy .
`` Groggins tells me she's started badgering already , wants to get out .
Wants to get to her booze , I guess '' .
`` I just got through seeing one of you guys .
I was sure that was the difficulty -- she just didn't want to stay here , where she couldn't get to the liquor .
`` I've got cancer , haven't I '' ? ?
`` You haven't got cancer '' , I said as strongly as I could .
I no longer knew how deep I was , somewhere under 230 feet , getting drunker , happier and more contented by the second .
It was no vacation , just me getting out after a bellyfull .
In less than an hour I had gotten a hotel , showered , shaved and was out on the Champs Elysees in a fresh uniform .
I never got there .
I got there on a Saturday evening .
`` I'm sorry I haven't got a glass '' , I said .
Then she said , `` Allons '' , and we got up and went to my hotel without another word .
And how on earth did I ever get this letter anyway ? ?
This letter would have got to me if she hadn't even put Rome , Italy , on it .
There they all did their uttermost to help Cousin Elec get a cramp out of his foot .
She got up , standing uncertainly for a moment , then moving aside to let go past her , talking , a group of young men .
They were even , Anne and George , probably thinking themselves very considerate in not hinting that she really should cut out `` one or two countries '' and come home in August to get Cousin Emma's house ready before the teachers came to Tuxapoka in September .
And now Lucille Warren had gotten a look at him .
She'd have gotten him , if I hadn't stopped her .
I assumed Alma would get me there , but in the confusion of the meeting breaking up , we were separated .
`` Need a pumpkin to get to the party '' ? ?
But at least come along while I get lubricated '' .
The others will make you a little more comfortable until you get it licked .
You young men get to be my age , you won't take flu so lightly '' .
`` I've got this cold .
`` You've got a peaked look .
Better get in out of the wet '' .
He thought about it for a minute , could find no reasonable explanation for the presence of a sweater in the refrigerator , got the salami , bread , and a Bermuda onion , and put the whole thing out of his mind .
I've got this cold '' .
You want to watch out that you don't get burned to an ash , first sunny day .
He got a red pill and a beer and then , on impulse , transferred the rest of his salami to her side of the refrigerator and scrawled `` Be my guest '' on the wrapping .
`` I've got this cold '' , he wrote .
He had to write very small to get it on the bottom of the scrap of paper .
She's got browny hair '' .
`` I've got this sunburn '' , said the note , `` and I used some of your hand lotion .
Suppose what's-his-name got a sunburn ? ?
The only thing , this lotion has glycerin in it , and that whitens the skin , so if you're so anxious to get a tan , you may not want to use it '' .
Phil Rossoff cut over to center from left field to get the relay .
This so infuriated Deegan that he spun around and said : `` I'll get that little bastard .
So help me God , I'll get him '' .
In the last of the sixth inning Mike Deegan got up to bat and hit a fast ball over the left fielder's head .
By the time the fielder got his hands on the ball Deegan was rounding third base and heading for home .
Only Mike got to his feet .
Phil Rossoff , seated next to Deegan , got up and moved to the other end of the bench .
He got back into the batter's box and on the next pitch dropped into the dirt again .
Mike was slow getting into the box this time .
Deegan dropped , got up , turned and , holding the bat with both hands up against his chest , began to walk slowly out to the mound .
`` You get your unconditional release as of today '' .
You haven't got the heart for baseball '' .
I know you've got talent .
But what you haven't got is the heart to back up that talent with .
You just haven't got the heart for pro-ball , and that's it '' .
Dazed , Phil said : `` I don't get it .
And you've got to be ready to cut to ribbons anybody who wants to take your way of life away from you '' ! !
You'll get your pay in the morning '' .
Phil said : `` I got my release '' .
`` I don't get it '' .
`` Hell , plenty of guys get let out and come back later .
`` You'll get a job there .
An American student named Charlotte Adams had refused to take notice of his evident aversion to people and had at last succeeded in getting him to talk to her .
I let the engine idle then , and I got down and went around the wheel and stood beside it .
I got on the tractor again and I had to watch the plow closely because the field was drawn across the long hillside and even in that good soil there was a danger of rocks .
She never got on his back .
He whistled as he locked the office and grinned as he got on the elevator .
My John applied to six colleges before he got in '' .
He got a science scholarship to Yale '' .
Charles Burke got turned down by Dartmouth and he is a straight-A student '' .
`` But you know how hard it is to get a boy into a good college .
He saw that Dolores intended to wait until the last minute , thinking he would get nervous .
If the situation had been bad , it now got worse .
Angrily Martin wished they had delayed the wedding and gone on a trip -- preferably one that lasted months -- instead of deciding not to postpone the date until he could get away .
`` You know , I've got one of your cars at home .
This means the aircraft companies are going to tear into the government market , looking for anything they can get and making the competition tough .
Through Jack Hamrick , William fell into the world of automobile promotion and got several accounts for Shoals and Clay .
`` We'll be in there swinging '' , William said , `` but in a way , sir , you've got to decide it yourself .
`` I'm an advertising hustler , I admit , but I have to get hot once in a larger sphere .
We've got rid of the steam yachts and Georgian houses , and the bloated , too-expensive automobile is next .
`` All the in-laws have got to have their day '' , Adam said , and glared at William and Freddy in turn .
Finally , at Ye Olde Gasse Filling Station on Avocado Avenue , they learned that their man , having paused to get oil for his car , had asked about the route to San Diego .
Now Welch had a pet theory that everyone is guilty of breaking more laws than he ever gets caught at .
`` Barco , we've got the goods on you ! !
For indeed it seemed incredible that anyone could go on committing murder for ten years and not get caught at it , even in Hollywood .
Stopping the cars at a fork in the road , he got out , paced off a certain distance to a spot between two shrub-covered sand hills , and indicated a location .
Here's a household hint : if you can't find your children , and get tired of calling them , pick up the phone .
Somehow managing to get out a cool , poised , `` Won't you hold on a second , please '' , I covered up the mouthpiece , and with more warmth and less poise , gave a quick lecture on crime and punishment , mostly the latter , including Devil's Island and the remoter reaches of Siberia .
Resolving to get something done , I started in on the dishes .
`` You are bound to get involved with people when you have children '' , Fran had told me at our first meeting , `` so it is good to know that those with whom you get involved are not just dreary little housewives and dull husbands , but People Who Do Things '' .
`` You are bound to get involved with people when you have children '' , Fran had told me at our first meeting , `` so it is good to know that those with whom you get involved are not just dreary little housewives and dull husbands , but People Who Do Things '' .
people who would give their teeth for a chance to get on `` Person to Person '' ; ;
a lovely Epiphany party at Errol Flynn's , on which sacred occasion Letch stole away with an unknown `` starlet '' , leaving me `` high and dry '' to get home as best I could .
It worried him , this inability to get the simplest things done in the course of a day .
Could it be that it speeded up for the aged in some mysterious way , as if a bored universe were skipping through the end of the chapter just to get it over with ? ?
`` That'll get you started .
Best not to get everything at once .
It gave him a chance to unload the stuff and get it down to the cellar without a barrage of acid comments .
If he was sober , which was doubtful , he'd have him get in touch with Mr. Crombie .
`` Now '' , he said , `` we got to put in some outlets for them power tools ; ;
Before you use 'em the light company's got to run in a heavy line and you'll need a new fuse box for the extra circuits .
That ain't too bad 'ceptin' the light company's so busy you can't ever get 'em to do nothin' '' .
`` Well '' , he said , `` got your man fixed up nice down there .
`` I've been waiting to get these things done for months '' , she said .
Then there was the caterer's ad which read : `` are you getting married or having an affair ? ?
An old-fashioned mother said to her modern daughter , `` You must have gotten in quite late last night , dear .
`` What have you got on today '' ? ?
One said , `` When I get a cold I buy a bottle of whiskey for it , and within a few hours it's gone '' .
`` If you are trying to get us out of the brothel , the dustbin , the kitchen sink , and the tawdry living-room , you are probably wasting your time '' , Moreland told me .
`` You think the Russians are getting ahead of us in comedy '' ? ?
I wrote a few years ago that one of the cardinal rules of writing is that the reader should be able to get some idea of what the story is about .
One day , the children had wanted to get up onto General Burnside's horse .
but then Arlene got another tone in a hurry , and she said , `` If it wasn't for these dear children '' -- .
The policeman got a confused , funny look on his face , and he had answered kind of politely , `` Now , look here , lady : I know you got to entertain these kids and all .
The policeman got a confused , funny look on his face , and he had answered kind of politely , `` Now , look here , lady : I know you got to entertain these kids and all .
And when they had got to their little lawn , they had had a most twirlingly magnificent time .
She would sometimes even get a little hard on you , she took you so seriously .
Then , they had to get up and be General Burnside .
`` Imagine you won't get your allowance if you're caught not smiling -- or smiling with your lips trembling too much '' , Arlene suggested .
They were a little late in getting home .
The children rushed off to get rid of their sweaters ; ;
The innocence that they tried to conceal at the beginning is clearly destroyed forever when one of them , asking for a piece of lemon-meringue pie , gets a plate of English muffins instead .
Reduced to beggary , he at last got a job as office boy to a television producer .
