The effectiveness of the governor in clearing up some of the inconsistencies revolving about the sales tax bill may play a part in determining whether it can muster the required two-thirds vote .
The Philadelphia Transportation Co. is investigating the part its organization played in reviewing the project .
Bill Kunkel , Bob Hartman and Ed Keegan did the mound chores for the club down from West Palm Beach to play the game before 767 paying customers in Miami Stadium .
-- A Texas halfback who doesn't even know the team's plays , Eldon Moritz , ranks fourth in Southwest Conference scoring after three games .
Although he never gets to play while the clock is running , he gets a big kick -- several every Saturday , in fact -- out of football .
But ask coach Darrell Royal what position he plays and you'll get the quick response , `` place-kicker '' .
He kicked several while playing at Stamford High School , including one that beat Anson , 3-0 , in a 1953 district game .
He missed the 1955 season because of an operation on the ailing knee , then played 77 minutes in 1956 .
`` Nelson played magnificent football '' , Meek praised .
Rice has not played since injuring a knee in the opener with Maryland .
`` We'll let him do a lot of running this week , but I don't know if he'll be able to play '' .
SMU will play the Owls at Rice Stadium in Houston in a night game Saturday , Oct. 21 .
The Texas Aggies got a day off Monday -- a special gift from Coach Jim Myers for its conference victory last Saturday night , but Myers announced that halfback George Hargett , shaken up in the Tech game , would not play against Trinity Saturday .
The Texans have two more road games -- at Buffalo and Houston -- before they play for the home folks again , and it looks as if coach Hank Stram's men will meet the Bills just as they are developing into the kind of team they were expected to be in pre-season reckonings .
`` Our interior line and out linebackers played exceptionally well '' , said Stram Monday after he and his staff reviewed movies of the game .
-- Boston Red Sox Outfielder Jackie Jensen said Monday night he was through playing baseball .
`` Spahnie doesn't know how to merely go through the motions '' , remarked Enos Slaughter , another all-out guy , who played rightfield that day and popped one over the clubhouse .
The Denver-area TV audience was privileged to see Mays' four home runs , thanks to a new arrangement made by Bob Howsam that the games are not to be blacked out when his Bears are playing at home .
This year , I am told , the CBS network will continue to abide by the rule but NBC will play to a conclusion here .
Coach played 3 years
Skorich , who is 39 years old , played football at Cincinnati University and then had a three-year professional career as a lineman under Jock Sutherland with the Pittsburgh Steelers .
He played basketball there while working toward a law degree .
For a serious young man who plays golf with a serious intensity , Palmer has such an inherent sense of humor that it relieves the strain and keeps his nerves from jangling like banjo strings .
`` You must play it where it lies '' .
`` I'll do as you say , but I'll also play a provisional ball and get a ruling '' .
The owners would like each club in the fourteen-team league to play a home-and-home series with teams in its division , plus two games against teams in the other division .
Nine of the league's teams play in baseball parks and therefore face an early-season conflict in dates .
Harvey Haddix , set back by the flu this season , will start against his former Cardinal mates , who might be playing without captain Kenny Boyer in tonight's game at Busch Stadium .
Benington recalled that he once told Hartweger that he doubted Gordon would ever play much for him because he seemed to be lacking in all of the accepted basketball skills .
As Hartweger accepted his silver bowl , he said , `` I want to thank coach's wife for talking him into letting me play '' .
The Bears are set to play at Harris Teachers College at 3:30 tomorrow and have a doubleheader at Quincy , Ill. , Saturday .
Yes , we know , they're professionals , men paid to play , and they shouldn't care how they're handled , just as long as their names are spelled correctly on the first and fifteenth of each month .
Willie's wonderful walloping Sunday -- four home runs -- served merely to emphasize how happy he is to be playing for Alvin Dark .
The international theme will be continued with the Balkan strings playing for a dinner the Byron Harveys will give in the Racquet club after the tea .
Comic Gary Morton signed to play the Living Room here Dec. 18 , because that's the only time his heart , Lucille Ball , can come along .
Music for dancing will be furnished by Allen Uhles and his orchestra , who will play each Saturday during June .
Trouble-free , long-life , quality components will play an increasingly important part in the merchandising of new housing in 1960 '' , Pantas predicted .
`` It is like handing a loaded automatic to an 8-year-old and telling him to run out and play '' , he commented .
Now a quiet-spoken , middle-aged man , Fiedler is an aeronautical engineer for Lockheed's Missiles and Space Division at Sunnyvale , where he played a key role in the development of the Navy's Polaris missile .
The get-together Friday night will be a banquet at the country club patio and pool , and an orchestra will play for dancing .
The Tic-Tac-Toe trio is the club's new show group which also plays for dancing .
Don , who played drums , hasn't seen his chum since .
Guest performers and conductors during the coming season will include many renowned artists who began their careers playing with the orchestra , including violinists Yehudi Menuhin , Isaac Stern , Ruggiero Ricci and David Abel ; ;
President Kennedy couldn't stay away from his desk for the 75-minute young people's concert played on the White House lawn yesterday by the 85-piece Transylvania Symphony Orchestra from Brevard , N. C. .
`` I think they played Hail To The Chief better than the Marine Corps Band , and we are grateful to them '' , President Kennedy remarked after mounting the bandstand and shaking hands with conductor James Christian Pfohl .
Displaying his knowledge of music , the New England-born President remarked that `` probably the best chamber music in the world is played in Vermont , by young Americans -- and here in this school where they have produced extraordinary musicians and teachers , and their work is being duplicated all across the United States .
He said he contacted a friend , Henry Hall Wilson , on the President's staff and asked whether his orchestra could play , in the series .
A flow of correspondence between Pfohl and Miss Baldrige resulted in an invitation to the 85-student North Carolina group to play the first concert .
He would come home in the evening tired and discouraged -- in no frame of mind to play with their three children , or spend much time chatting with his wife .
Despite efforts by Washington last week to play down the significance of the meeting , it clearly was going to be one of the crucial encounters of the cold war .
it must play a game in which there never is a winner .
After playing a splendid first nine holes in 34 -- two strokes under par -- on this fifth and final day of the tournament ( Sunday's fourth round had been washed out by a violent rainstorm when it was only half completed ) , Player's game rapidly fell to pieces .
He could read on the nearby scoreboard that Palmer , by then playing the 15th hole , was leading him by a stroke .
Afterwards , Palmer told Charlie Coe , his last-round partner , that he simply played the hole too fast .
The lean and leathery Oklahoma amateur , who has been playing topnotch tournament golf for many years , refused to let the Masters jitters overtake him and closed the tournament with his second straight 69 .
Until late last Saturday afternoon Palmer had played seven consecutive rounds of golf at the Masters -- four last year and three this -- without ever being out of first place .
His three-round total of 210 was three strokes better than the next best score , a 213 by Bill Collins , the tall and deliberate Baltimorean who had been playing very well all winter long .
Anyone who now doubted that a personal duel was under way had only to watch how these exceptionally gifted golfers were playing this most difficult golf course .
Bob Jones played that way .
But now , for the first time since Lou Gehrig ( with 47 home runs ) spurred Ruth on in 1927 , two men playing for the same team have zeroed in on 60 .
as halfbacks , both came close to playing football at the University of Oklahoma ( `` Sometimes in the minors '' , Maris recalls , `` I wished I had gone to Oklahoma '' ) .
Benched at Tulsa in 1955 , he told manager Dutch Meyer : `` I can't play for you .
Send me where I can play '' .
`` When Mickey went to the Yankees '' , says Mark Freeman , an ex-Yankee pitcher who sells mutual funds in Denver , `` DiMaggio still was playing and every day Mickey would go by his locker , just aching for some word of encouragement from this great man , this hero of his .
If laying ties on a railroad track , which he once did for $1 an hour , paid more than playing right field for the Yankees , Maris would lay ties on a railroad track .
If working in a zinc mine , which he once did for 87-1/2 cents an hour , paid more than playing center field for the Yankees , Mantle would work in a zinc mine .
They try to play baseball the best they can .
Mobutu promptly flung out the Russians , who have not since played any significant part on the local scene , although they have redoubled their obstructionist efforts at U.N. headquarters in New York .
All week long the President clearly was playing a larger personal role in foreign affairs ; ;
He kept his attacks on Republicanism for partisan campaigns , but that is part of the game he was born to play .
The only response we can think of is the humble one that at least we aren't playing the marimba with our shoes in the United Nations , but perhaps the heavy domes in the house of delegates can improve on this feeble effort .
You'd never guess it from the way they've played so far this spring , but there remains a feeling among some around here that the Orioles still have a chance to battle for the pennant in 1961 .
He hasn't played too much , because Richards has been working on him furiously in batting practice .
As the mother of an autistic child who is lacking in interest and enthusiasm about almost anything , I have to manipulate my son's fingers for him when he first plays with a new toy .
The West Berlin crisis is being played up artificially because it is needed by the United States to justify its arms drive '' .
If he can't play with Mommy's magazines , he should have some old numbers of his own .
It looks more like they are going to play at the beach instead of taking lessons on bettering themselves .
In all the bitter in-fighting , the squabbles over election procedures , the complicated numbers game that East and West played on the assistant secretaries' theme , the gentleman from Burma showed himself both as a man of principle and a skilled diplomat .
As the civic temper rises , the more naive citizens begin to play soldier -- but the guns are real .
The band should play the Rogues' March as a processional , switching to `` Hail Columbia , Happy Land '' ! !
Small , shirt-sleeved orchestras play in 2/4 or 4/4 time , using guitars , violins , and more alien instruments with names that would open Sesame : the oud , grandfather of the lute ; ;
Certainly not in Orchestra Hall where he has played countless recitals , and where Thursday night he celebrated his 20th season with the Chicago Symphony Orchestra , playing the Brahms Concerto with his own slashing , demon-ridden cadenza melting into the high , pale , pure and lovely song with which a violinist unlocks the heart of the music , or forever finds it closed .
Certainly not in Orchestra Hall where he has played countless recitals , and where Thursday night he celebrated his 20th season with the Chicago Symphony Orchestra , playing the Brahms Concerto with his own slashing , demon-ridden cadenza melting into the high , pale , pure and lovely song with which a violinist unlocks the heart of the music , or forever finds it closed .
Not the noblest performance we have heard him play , or the most spacious , or even the most eloquent .
Nikolai Cherkasov , the Russian actor who has played such heroic roles as Alexander Nevsky and Ivan the Terrible , performs the lanky Don Quixote , and does so with a simple dignity that bridges the inner nobility and the surface absurdity of this poignant man .
The episode in which Sancho Panza concludes the joke that is played on him when he is facetiously put in command of an `` island '' is one of the best in the film .
( He played host at the Timex show already mentioned .
Francois D'Albert , Hungarian-born violinist who made his New York debut three years ago , played a return engagement last night in Judson Hall .
In recent years Anna Xydis has played with the New York Philharmonic and at Lewisohn Stadium , but her program last night at Town Hall was the Greek-born pianist's first New York recital since 1948 .
She played with style and a touch of the grand manner , and every piece she performed was especially effective in its closing measures .
Everywhere there are little touches of humor , and the leader of the on-stage band of musicians is an ebullient comedian who plays all sorts of odd instruments with winning warmth .
John Heffernan , playing Larry Larkin , the cartoonist , carries the show in marvelous fashion .
In brief , Berman played himself and not Bolger .
`` Behind that Charlie Chaplin moustache and that truant lock of hair that always covered his forehead , behind the tirades and the sulky silences , the passionate orations and the occasional dull evasive stare , behind the prejudices , the cynicism , the total amorality of behavior , behind even the tendency to great strategic mistakes , there lay a statesman of no mean qualities : Shrewd , calculating , in many ways realistic , endowed -- like Stalin -- with considerable powers of dissimulation , capable of playing his cards very close to his chest when he so desired , yet bold and resolute in his decisions , and possessing one gift Stalin did not possess : The ability to rouse men to fever pitch of personal devotion and enthusiasm by the power of the spoken word '' .
Joan Fagan , a fiery redhead who can impress you that she has a temper whether she really has one or not , plays Ellen , and sings the role very well , too .
Then there are a pair of old biddies played by Grace Carney and Sibly Bowan who may be right off the shelf of stock Irish characters , but they put such a combination of good will and malevolence into their parts that they're quite entertaining .
`` A Toast To The Bride '' , sung by Clarence Nordstrom , playing a character called Old Man Toomey , is quite simple , direct and touching .
Rococo music -- a lot of it -- was played in Carnegie Recital Hall on Saturday night in the first of four concerts being sponsored this season by a new organization known as Globe Concert Arts .
He plays his sax principally for beauty of tone , rather than for scintillating flights of meaningless improvisations , and he has a quiet way of getting back and restating the melody after the improvising is over .
Shearing , himself , seemed to me to be playing better piano than in his recent Newport appearances .
Demonstrating the primitive African rhythmic backgrounds of the Blues was Michael Babatunde Olatunji , who plays such native drums as the konga and even does a resounding job slapping his own chest .
Music lovers who are not familiar with this literature may hear an excellent example , played for RCA by Emil Gilels .
The orchestra was obviously on its mettle and it played most responsively .
It is a land of long fjords , few people , a single-lane road miles away -- and of wild stags , Greylag geese , wild swans , dolphins and porpoises playing in the waters .
This is not only a compliment to Mijbil , of whom there are a fine series of photographs and drawings in the book , but to the author who has catalogued the saga of a frightened otter cub's journey by plane from Iraq to London , then by train ( where he lay curled in the wash basin playing with the water tap ) to Camusfearna , with affectionate detail .
Accordingly , at the Comedie last year , Jean Meyer played a sympathetic Arnolphe and drew criticism for turning the comedy into a tragedy .
Jouvet played him as a sincere zealot , and Ledoux , at the Comedie , made him a gross buffoon , or so the historians tell us .
Louis Seigner , who formerly played the deluded benefactor opposite Ledoux , is the Tartuffe of the present production , which he himself directed .
His normal specialty is playing the good-natured old man , frequently stupid or deluded but never mean or sly .
He told once of how he switched his style of playing to jazz after listening to two old Armstrong records he bought in the Flea Market in Paris .
And this was before he began to play his startlingly beautiful jazz .
He is one of the few men in history who plays jazz on a violin .
They play : `` Minor Swing '' , `` Honeysuckle Rose '' , `` Beyond The Sea '' , `` Bricktop '' , `` Heavy Artillery '' , `` Djangology '' , `` After You've Gone '' , `` Where Are You , My Love '' ? ?
The actor plays his role glumly under the lurid direction of Don Chaffey , as do Basil Sydney as his unsympathetic father and Anton Diffring as an innocent bystander .
Throughout `` The Making Of A President '' Mr. White shows wonderfully well how the pressures pile up on candidates , how decisions have constantly to be made , how fatigue and illness and nervous strain wear candidates down , how subordinates play key roles .
The better part of gallantry might be , perhaps , to honor her perennial good looks and her gorgeous rainbow-hued gown , and to chide the orchestra for not playing in the same keys in which she had chosen to sing .
Two late Sonatas , Op. 110 and 111 , were played with similar insight , the disarming simplicities of the Op. 111 Adagio made plain without ever becoming obvious .
The concerto's soloist , Hans Richter-Haaser , played with compensatory ease and economy , though without the consummate plasticity to which we had been treated on the previous evening by Herr Riefling .
But the final scenes could not be played .
But slowly they take over as Alain Delon ( Life , Sept. 15 ) , playing a sometimes appealing but always criminal boy , casually tells a rich and foot-loose American that he is going to murder him , then does it even while the American is trying to puzzle out how Delon expects to profit from the act .
They suspect it plays a role in the production of adrenal hormones , and they believe it is essential to the transport of fats throughout the circulatory system .
The situation in which we find ourselves is brought out with dramatic force in Arthur Miller's play The Crucible , which deals with the Salem witch trials .
Here , in an atmosphere of forthrightness and mutual criticism , each sought to bring his particular insights to bear upon the question of discrimination in housing and the part each man present played in it .
Discussion of minority housing necessarily involves such basic issues as the intensity of one's democratic conviction and religious belief concerning equality of opportunity , the function and limitations of government in the securing of such equality , and the spotlight that world opinion plays upon local incidents of racial agitation and strife .
the attitude adopted by realtors and their associations , either negative or positive , plays a large part in the public acceptance of such measures and the degree to which they may be effectively enforced .
It is a music like the music from a great organ or a vast orchestra playing a symphony .
Upon all of them played the intellectual , social , political , and economic attitudes , institutions , and customs of the nation .
Every detail in his interpretation has been beautifully thought out , and of these I would especially cite the delicious laendler touch the pianist brings to the fifth variation ( an obvious indication that he is playing with Viennese musicians ) , and the gossamer shading throughout .
Some of Curzon's playing strikes me as finicky , however .
Helmut Roloff , playing with a group of musicians from the Bayreuth Ensemble , gives a sturdy reading , in much the same vein as that of the last-mentioned pianists .
The orchestra is far enough away from you that you miss the bow scrapes , valve clicks , and other noises incidental to playing .
Never let anyone not in the know take a turn at the valves -- even if the little boys do want to play space ship .
Chicago was also a welcome host : there , in 1921 , Prokofieff conducted the world premiere of the Love For Three Oranges , and played the first performance of his Third Piano Concerto .
we bought his records and played them in our schools and universities .
It can put an end to marginal claims which play havoc with your insurance rates .
Interestingly enough -- although none of the real-life therapists involved could conceivably compare with Blauberman -- when groups of them began playing back interviews , they discovered any number of ways in which they wanted to polish their own interview techniques ; ;
She never hid the fact that she liked to play .
By preying on the sick , by playing callously on the hopes of the desperate , by causing the sufferer to delay proper medical care , these medical ghouls create pain and misery by their very activity .
It gives them room to play and plenty of fresh air .
The latter plays a prominent role in Roman Catholic theology and is considered decisive , entirely apart from Scripture , in determining the ethical character of birth-prevention methods .
I think you made a dam good chouise to turn off as nise a feler as Alf Dyer and let that orney thefin , drunkard , damed card playing sun of a bich com to sea you , the god damed theaf and lop yeard pigen tode helion , he is too orney for hel .
Carroll was sharp and military , but he was up against tough competition for that RA berth , and he wanted to play it cool .
Two men show promise of playing prominent roles :
She played chess with him by postcard .
In general , however , it may be said that when a boy or a girl leaves the high school , the school authorities play little or no part in the decision of what happens next .
This was typical of such games , which were earnestly played to win and practically never wound up in an expression of good fellowship .
Young men in school could look forward to playing ball for money in a dozen different places , even if they failed to make the major leagues .
Even a city of thirty thousand might have six baseball teams , sponsored by grocers and hardware merchants or department stores , that played two or three times a week throughout the summer , usually in the cool of the evening , before an earnest and partisan audience who did not begrudge a quarter each , or even more , to be dropped into a hat when the game was half over .
Babe Ruth , of course , was everyone's hero , and everyone knew him , even though relatively few ever saw him play ball .
Babe Ruth , as he always did in the Stadium , played right field to avoid having the sun in his eyes , and Tommy Thevenow , a rather mediocre hitter who played shortstop for the St. Louis Cardinals , knocked a ball with all his might into the sharp angle formed by the permanent stands and the wooden bleachers , where Ruth could not reach it .
Babe Ruth , as he always did in the Stadium , played right field to avoid having the sun in his eyes , and Tommy Thevenow , a rather mediocre hitter who played shortstop for the St. Louis Cardinals , knocked a ball with all his might into the sharp angle formed by the permanent stands and the wooden bleachers , where Ruth could not reach it .
I know Negroes who prefer the South and white Southerners , because `` At least there , you haven't got to play any guessing games '' ! !
For lawyers , reflecting perhaps their parochial preferences , there has been a special fascination since then in the role played by the Supreme Court in that transformation -- the manner in which its decisions altered in `` the switch in time that saved nine '' , President Roosevelt's ill-starred but in effect victorious `` Court-packing plan '' , the imprimatur of judicial approval that was finally placed upon social legislation .
I don't mean a few aesthetes who play about with sensations , like a young prince in a miniature dabbling his hand in a pool .
In his native Cologne , where his mother taught him to play the piano , he was able to read notes before he learned the alphabet .
Soon he was playing in the Cologne Municipal Orchestra , and during World War 1 , , when musicians were scarce , he joined the opera orchestra as well .
We'll play Bruckner's Fifth Symphony in the original version , and Mahler's Seventh -- the least accessible , known , and played of Mahler's works .
He added that he also stresses the works of these favorite masters on tour , especially Mahler's First and Fourth symphonies , and Das Lied Von der Erde , and Bruckner's Sixth -- which is rarely played -- and Seventh .
The active sponsor of Jefferson's measure for religious liberty in Virginia , Madison played the most influential single role in the drafting of the Constitution and in securing its ratification in Virginia , founded the first political party in American history , and , as Jefferson's Secretary of State and his successor in the Presidency , guided the nation through the troubled years of our second war with Britain .
He played the leading role in negotiating the treaty with Great Britain that ended the Revolution , and directed America's foreign affairs throughout the Confederation period .
The most effective political inventions seem to make maximum use of natural harbors and are aware that restraining breakwaters can play only a minor part in the whole scheme .
What additional roles has the scientific understanding of the 19th and 20th centuries played ? ?
The major effect of these advances appears to lie in the part they have played in the industrial revolution and in the tools which scientific understanding has given us to build and manipulate a more protective environment .
the tricks that time plays with memory and memory with time are queerest of all .
Thus shielded , we played many foolish games in comfortable unselfconsciousness ; ;
They never troubled themselves about us while we were playing , because the fence formed such a definite boundary and `` Don't go outside the gate '' was a command so impossible of misinterpretation .
The trick these two play upon Jacoby reveals their want not simply of decency but of imagination as well .
In Plato's judgment , the arts play a meaningful role in society only in the education of the young , prior to the full development of their intellectual powers .
A dominant motive is the poet's longing for his homeland and its boyhood associations : `` Not men-folk , but the fields where I would stray , The stones where as a child I used to play '' .
Wolfe refuses to ever leave his own house , and spends most of his time drinking beer and playing with orchids .
To perpetuate wealth control led by small groups of individuals who played no role in its creation prevents those with real initiative from coming to the fore , and is basically anti-democratic .
He would not have cared why it emerged , he only wanted to capture a memory to play with it again in his imagination and somehow to fix and hold in the story the disturbing emotions that accompanied the fantasy .
I played on it my secret songs , unexplained , passionate and peaceful '' .
One evening , while a volley-ball game was being played in the yard among the prisoners remaining there , a simulated melee was staged -- just as the gates were opened to admit other prisoners returning from work .
In the following year her father undertook to give a course in Hebrew theology to Johns Hopkins students , and this brought to the Szold house a group of bright young Jews who had come to Baltimore to study , and who enjoyed being fed and mothered by Mamma and entertained by Henrietta and Rachel , who played and sang for them in the upstairs sitting room on Sunday evenings .
played Chopin in the `` Soiree Musicale of Mr. Guthrie's Pupils '' ; ;
Only what else was she singing but the old Song of Songs , that most ancient of tunes that nature plays with such unfailing response upon young nerves ? ?
To play the guitar as he aspires will devour his three-fold energy as a historian , a poet and a singer .
The New York Herald Tribune's photographer , Ira Rosenberg , tells an anecdote about the time he wanted to take a picture of Carl playing a guitar .
While Johnny made himself comfortable on the couch , I'd play the tunes for him .
After I would finish playing the songs , he'd just go away without a comment .
It was here that the terror-stricken Dennis Moon played an unrehearsed role during the children's party .
Most of my stories were obtained by simply seeking out the person who could give me the facts , and not as a rule by playing clever tricks .
Sometimes , Mrs. Coolidge would close herself in the Green Suite on the second floor , and play the piano she had brought to the White House .
Mama knew she was playing her son's favorite pieces and feeling close to him , and did not disturb her .
Mrs. Coolidge would knit , and the President would sit reading , or playing with the many pets around them .
How literature does this , or for whom , is certainly not clear , but the content , form , and language of the `` message '' , as well as the source , would all play differentiated parts in giving and molding a sense of purpose .
I mean something more like Freud's concept of the utility of `` play '' to a small child : he plays `` house '' or `` doctor '' or `` fireman '' as a way of mastering slightly frightening experiences , reliving them imaginatively until they are under control .
The complexities of Venetian politics eluded him , but the story of the revolution itself is told in restrained measures , with no superfluous passages and only an occasional overemphasis of the part played by its leading figure .
Suvorov played parent not just to his Cossacks but to all his troops .
He again began to play the violin , and tucking the instrument beneath his chin , performed soulful and romantic airs to match the expressions on the faces of the lovely women who gathered to hear him .
For one thing , Aristotle mentions that plays may corrupt the audience .
the pope was playing a dangerous game , with so many balls in the air at once that a misstep would bring them all about his ears , and his only hope was to temporize so that he could take advantage of every change in the delicate balance of European affairs .
I wanted to help so that we could find time to play .
This huge hulk played the guitar and he would take it along on our walks and play for us as we sat alone in the woods or by the stream .
Karl played well and his favorite song was a Schubert lullaby .
They were aware that soldiers went to town , in more ways than one , because of the monotony of camp life , to find the only release available in the absence of movies , reading rooms , and playing fields with adequate athletic equipment .
The CTCA program of activities was profuse : William Farnum and Mary Pickford on the screen , Elsie Janis and Harry Lauder on the stage , books provided by the American Library Association , full equipment for games and sports -- except that no `` bones '' were furnished for the all-time favorite pastime played on any floor and known as `` African golf '' .
And in these organizations certain primal notions played a radiant part , radiant both in the sense of giving light and of being a pole toward which all perspectives converge .
-- since , as Courtenay says , `` Nobody should play with lives the way we do unless he's motivated by the highest ideals '' .
He is forced to play for little money , and must often take another job to live .
Around that statue in the green park where children play and lovers walk in twos and there is a glowing view of the whole city , in that park are the rows of marble busts of Garibaldi's fallen men , the ones who one day rushed out of the Porta San Pancrazio and , under fire all the way , up the long , straight narrow lane to take , then lose the high ground of the Villa Doria Pamphili .
He will be considered not only great among his contemporaries , but as great among all the Americans who have played a part in the country's history since the beginning .
Other factors playing a part in the extent of AM service and interference are the frequency involved , the time of year , the position of the year in the sunspot cycle , ground conductivity along the transmission path , atmospheric and manmade noise , and others .
The Soccer Club was organized by undergraduate men interested in playing soccer and promoting the sport .
After another two weeks , the first young emerge , four to eight small daughters that begin to play the role of worker bees , collecting pollen and nectar in the field and caring for the new young generation while the queen retires to a life of egg laying .
There is some evidence that naturally occurring goitrogens may play a role in the development of goitre , particularly in Tasmania and Australia ( Clements and Wishart , 1956 ) .
Besides the presence of goitrogens in the diet , the level of iodine itself in the diet plays a major role in governing the activity of the thyroid gland .
In addition , the neocortical-hypothalamic relations play a great role in primates , as Mirsky's interesting experiment on the `` communication of affect '' demonstrates .
It should be added that in man neocortical-hypothalamic interrelations probably play a role in the fusion of emotional processes with those underlying perception , memory , imagination , and creativity .
The foregoing remarks imply that the hypothalamic balance plays a crucial role at the crossroads between physiological and pathological forms of emotion .
In view of the important role which emotional disturbances play in the genesis of neurotic and psychotic disorders and the parallelism observed between autonomic states and psychological behavior in several instances , it is further suggested that a hypothalamic imbalance may play an important role in initiating mental changes .
In view of the important role which emotional disturbances play in the genesis of neurotic and psychotic disorders and the parallelism observed between autonomic states and psychological behavior in several instances , it is further suggested that a hypothalamic imbalance may play an important role in initiating mental changes .
The process of social control is operative insofar as sanctions play a part in the individual's behavior , as well as the group's behavior .
At the end of work one day , the personnel man took the applicants one at a time , asked them to sit behind the receptionist's desk and he then played the role of a number of people who might come to the receptionist with a number of queries and for a number of purposes .
Somewhat to his surprise he found that one girl , whom he would never have considered for the job since she had appeared somewhat mousy and also had been in the office a relatively short time , did the most outstanding job of playing the role of receptionist , showing wit , sparkle , and aplomb .
She was hired and was found to be entirely satisfactory when she played the role eight hours a day .
He played a number of typical situations before observers , other supervisors who kept notes and then explained to him in detail what he did they thought was wrong .
On playing some typical situations before a jury of his peers he showed some characteristics rated as unsatisfactory .
In life we learn to play our roles and we `` freeze '' into patterns which become so habitual that we are not really aware of what we do .
loyalty to the group , a feeling of superiority over those who are not members , and unwillingness to play with members of the opposite sex become dominant traits .
The child in the primary grades can play harmoniously with one companion , but his desire to be first in everything gets him into trouble when the group gets larger ; ;
One social-class factor which plays a large part in educational policy today is the fact that a great many school and college teachers are upward mobile from urban lower-class and lower-middle-class families .
And the authors give numerous instances of calculated guessing on the patient's part to show how large a role it played in his process of readapting himself and how proficient he became at it .
These were the years when people flocked to Manchester not only to play golf , which had come into vogue , but also to witness the Ekwanok Country Club tournaments .
In modern jazz , the saxophone is treated as a woodwind and played with conventional embouchure .
The children had nowhere to go and no place to play , not even sidewalks .
As Sir Giles Overreach ( how often had he had to play that part , who did not believe a word of it ) , he raised his arm and declaimed : `` Where is my honour now '' ? ?
What if it came when he was playing , or was asleep and dreaming ? ?
On the Christophers' lawn , little girls in white pinafores were playing grownups at a tea party .
-- he had to play a role of self-effacement .
It was my initiation to war and the insane symphony war plays ; ;
He claimed to be visiting the waterfront saloon at the crossroads to play cards and drink with his cronies , but Kate had not smelled brandy on him since Mrs. Lattimer's funeral .
Time plays an essential part in our mortality , and suddenly for no reason he could imagine ( or admit ) the image of Peg laughing filled his mind -- so desirable , so lusty , so full of nuances of pleasure and joy .
I'd have been more impressed if I hadn't remembered that she'd played Hedda Gabler in her highschool dramatics course .
Then he played nine imaginary holes of golf , choosing his handicap , his irons , his stance , his opponents , and his weather in detail , but the green of the links seemed faded in the light of his business worries .
I used to play with the older one sometimes , when he'd let me .
Or it might have been the absent nephews she addressed , consciously playing with the notion that this was one of the summers of their early years .
The children had to play away from the house ( in the barn loft or the pasture behind the barn ) , to maintain a proper quietness .
Again among those jubilantly reunited bunkmates , I was shy with Jessie and acted as I had during those early Saturday mornings when we all seemed to be playing for effect , to be detached and unconcerned with the girls who were properly our dates but about whom , later , in the privacy of our bunks , we would think in terms of the most elaborate romance .
It was late , we were playing kissing games , and Jessica and I were called on to kiss in front of the others .
Grosse muttered , his head down , one hand playing with the zipper on his jacket .
Back East the more affluent juvenile delinquents , who could afford hyped-up autos instead of switch blades as lethal weapons , played this same game and called it `` Chicken '' .
Usually she marked the few who did thank you , you didn't get that kind much in a place like this : and she played a little game with herself , seeing how downright rude she could act to the others , before they'd take offense , threaten to call the manager .
Try to find out how happy he is with his wife , whether he plays around with women .
He demonstrated by playing an imaginary piano , doing a staccato passage with a broadly exaggerated attack .
He was moving like a ballet dancer , playing for laughs .
It was just that little accidents played into her hands .
he might be Mrs. Meeker's murderer or have played some part in her death .
But he didn't play golf , didn't seem to belong to any local clubs -- his work took him away a lot , of course -- which probably accounted for his tendency to keep to himself .
Mr. Phillips had only to signal from his doorway to summon aid from the ubiquitous bilingual children who played on the sidewalks of Mission Street .
I knew the only way I could beat you was to play possum , but it was a good try , kid , and I appreciate it .
Alec played the part of an innocent tourist .
He felt very cunning , very proud of himself as he played on the other man's soft spot .
Or would you rather deal a hand of show-down poker or play a game of gin rummy , or what '' ? ?
So , for happy years , Helva scooted around in her shell with her classmates , playing such games as Stall , Power-Seek , studying her lessons in trajectory , propulsion techniques , computation , logistics , mental hygiene , basic alien psychology , philology , space history , law , traffic , codes : all the et ceteras that eventually became compounded into a reasoning , logical , informed citizen .
A warm breeze played across it , moving it like waves .
Two men were on duty inside , playing pinochle , relaxed .
There a dozen giant monitors played their seventy-five-foot jets of water against the huge seam of tertiary gravel which was the mountainside .
By failing to do as he was told instantly -- to take out a permit or return the gun to his car -- he had played into Lord's hands .
Now , he could only play the last card in what was probably the world's coldest deck .
But with Bill O'Connor on the fiddle , and Gran Harrow exuberantly shouting `` Glory Be '' and `` Hallelujah '' above their united chant of the lilting old ballads , they played their quaint folk games with all the fervor and abandon of a real celebration .
Of course , males play a role there , but believe me when I say you wouldn't enjoy yourself one bit on Eromonga .
Mouse deer played around the feet of the elephants , or fled when the mighty legs thrashed too close .
School began in August , the hottest part of the year , and for the first few days Miss Langford was very lenient with the children , letting them play a lot and the new ones sort of get acquainted with one another .
`` Don't you play hard today then .
`` OK. , I won't play hard '' , he promised .
When they reached the school , a gang of boys and girls were already there playing `` crack the whip '' in front of the schoolhouse .
The children grudgingly stopped playing then and straggled into the schoolhouse .
At noontime , remembering what the teacher had said about maybe playing with the kids , Jack stayed close to the schoolhouse while all the other big boys , except Charles , went off out the road to play ball .
At noontime , remembering what the teacher had said about maybe playing with the kids , Jack stayed close to the schoolhouse while all the other big boys , except Charles , went off out the road to play ball .
`` Miss Langford , come out and play with us like you promised '' , several of the little girls called .
They played crack the whip a few minutes without mishap .
`` Will you play with us again , Miss Langford '' ? ?
`` I don't believe I'll play any more neither '' .
Jack walked off alone out the road in the searing midday sun , past Robert Allen's three-room , tarpapered house , toward the field where the other boys were playing ball , thinking of what he would do in order to make Miss Langford have him stay in after school -- because this was the day he had decided when he thought he saw the look in her eyes .
A stringed orchestra played softly behind the potted palms , and Delphine circulated graciously among her guests , chatting airily of the forthcoming races , the latest fashions from Paris , and Louisiana politics .
It was so pretty and artless that she felt like a child again and would have enjoyed running out barefoot to play on the wet grass with all the growing things , but Doaty never permitted bare feet and she was decidedly not a child but une femme d'un certain age .
Perhaps golf , with a fashionable companion -- but he'd lost his clubs , hadn't played in years .
`` God , I take it , plays no part in this '' , she said waspishly .
Just to test himself , he played roulette for quarters on his old combination , five and seventeen , and within an hour , he had won , surprisingly , twenty dollars .
Owen was surprised to see Mrs. Gertrude Parker playing the one-arm bandits that were cunningly arranged by the entrance .
She sat down and played two slots at once , looking grim , as if bested by mechanical devices , and Owen felt sorry for the lay-sisters depending on her support .
`` What are you playing '' ? ?
Five came up while Owen was listening to The Wrangler and he neglected to play , a loss of ten dollars .
She said , `` Sometimes I think they are keeping religion for us while we play around .
Out of the church and into his big car , it tooling over the road with him driving and the headlights sweeping the pike ahead and after he hit college , his expansiveness , the quaint little pine board tourist courts , cabins really , with a cute naked light bulb in the ceiling ( unfrosted and naked as a streetlight , like the one on the corner where you used to play when you were a kid , where you watched the bats swooping in after the bugs , watching in between your bouts at hopscotch ) , a room complete with moths pinging the light and the few casual cockroaches cruising the walls , an insect Highway Patrol with feelers waving .
It was strange stuff -- it reminded me of the pictures of a child , but a child who has never played with other kids and has lived all its life with adults .
And when you get back from Grandma's , Cathy will be here to play with you .
She called him `` Stuck-up -- that's why nobody plays with you , Mister Stuck-up '' .
She understood sex anyway , and played at it well .
Three of the four persons present , all foreign students in Tokyo , had been playing a game of judging popular Japanese foods by the In and Out system , an equation in which Zen philosophy was used as the modifier .
The boy usually was sent out at about that time with the water , and he always dragged an old snow-fence lath or a stick along , to play with .
He wondered if he had played it wrong .
`` But he plays bass with Chief Crazy Horse and his Five Colts '' ! !
He likes to play bass because he doesn't have to solo .
I discovered that the girls had shrewdly vacated the kitchen , and were playing quietly in the living room .
Even though I have always had a genius for `` throwing myself '' into every role and `` playing it for all it's worth '' , no actress can be expected to do her best work when her fortune , her reputation , her livelihood , her home and her nation itself are all imperilled .
As Letch's antisocial conduct increased , our invitations decreased and my heart was in my mouth whenever I played hostess at a fashionable `` screenland '' gathering .
As I was playing Mother Cabrini , the picture was actually `` all mine '' , with nearly every scene built around me .
At the same time , however , I availed myself of the services of that great English actor and master of make-up , Sir Gauntley Pratt , to do a `` quickie '' called The Mystery of the Mad Marquess , in which I played a young American girl who inherits a haunted castle on the English moors which is filled with secret passages and sliding panels and , unbeknownst to anyone , is still occupied by an eccentric maniac .
He had almost forgotten them , although they had played such an important part in his early dreams .
Nevertheless , like any other human being upon whom the spotlight of the world plays continually , Khrushchev , the anti-personality cultist , has become a comic actor , or thinks he has .
`` I suppose you all were playing and forgot '' ? ?
A biting , pithy parable of the all-pervading hollowness of modern life , the piece has been set by Mlle Lagoon to a sumptuous score ( a single motif played over and over by four thousand French horns ) by existentialist hot-shot Jean-Paul Sartre .
Petite , lovely Yvette Chadroe plays the nymphomaniac engagingly .
Cause of all this commotion : squat , pug-nosed , balding , hopelessly ugly Jean-Pierre Bravado , a Bogartian figure , who plays a sadistic , amoral , philosophic Tasti-Freeze salesman in old New-Waver Fredrico de Mille Rossilini's endlessly provocative film , A Sour Sponge .
you're tooling around full of gage in your hot rods , gorging yourselves on pizza and playing pinball in the taverns and generally behaving like Ubermenschen .
